North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122 

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 

North American Journal of Economics and Finance 

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/najef 

Unraveling the multiscale comovement of green bonds and structural shocks: An oil-driven analysis 

Mobeen Ur Rehman[a][,][b] , Neeraj Nautiyal[c] , Rami Zeitun[d][,][*] , Xuan Vinh Vo[e] , Wafa Ghardallou[f ] 

a _SZABIST University, Islamabad, Pakistan_ 

b _Institute of Business Research, University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam_ 

c _Faculty of Business, Sohar University, Oman_ 

d _Finance and Economics, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar_ 

e _Institute of Business Research and CFVG, University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam_ 

f _Department of Accounting, College of Business Administration, Princess Nourah bint Abdulrahman University, P.O. Box 84428, Riyadh 11671, Saudi Arabia_ 

|A R T I C L E I N F O|A B S T R A C T|
|---|---|
|_JEL classification:_|This paper examines the multiscale comovement between the green bonds issued in developed|
|G11|countries and international oil-driven shocks. We extracted the oil shocks using a structural vector|
|G12<br>G15|autoregressive model. The countries in our analysis comprised the UK, the US, Japan, Canada,<br>Australia, and Europe, with the data being captured from November 28, 2008 to June 11, 2021.|
|_Keywords:_<br>Oil shocks<br>Green bonds<br>Wavelets|We applied the wavelet technique to examine the returns comovement across time and frequency<br>as a form of bivariate and multivariate analysis. Our results highlight a limited connection be-<br>tween the returns of green bonds and the international oil market, with Norway and Sweden|
|VaR|exhibiting strong comovement across low frequencies. We posit that during crisis periods, the<br>correlation between green bond returns and oil returns varies. The findings of this study have|
||several implications for policymakers and investors with an interest in both oil futures and green|
||bonds.|



## **1. Introduction** 

Over the past decade, there has been a growing global impetus to promote a more judicious use of natural resources to correct the alarming rate of depletion and mitigate the potentially catastrophic effects on future generations (Kapustkina, 2021). Due to the increasing frequency of climate-related disasters, the transition towards a sustainable economy is no longer an abstract goal but rather an urgent necessity (Naeem et al., 2023; Bogdanov et al., 2021). Consequently, people are becoming more conscious of the risks presented to our environment by the current global economy, which frequently prioritizes short-term profits over long-term sustainability. Investors who seek to reduce the carbon footprint of their fixed-income portfolios often have limited options for maintaining liquidity and returns. Nevertheless, more companies and investors are redirecting their capital towards more sustainable investments, and green bonds have emerged as a popular investment option (Mensi et al., 2022; Chernyshova, 2021). 

The idea behind these thematic bonds was first introduced in 2008 with the World Bank’s inaugural labeled green bond. The 

- Corresponding author. 

_E-mail address:_ rami.zeitun@qu.edu.qa (R. Zeitun). 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.najef.2024.102122 

Received 4 August 2023; Received in revised form 16 December 2023; Accepted 26 February 2024 Available online 28 February 2024 

1062-9408/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

market for green bonds has grown rapidly since then as more investors and issuers have recognized their potential for advancing environmental objectives. In September 2022, the market reached a record-breaking $3.5 trillion, with green bonds occupying the largest share (64 %) of this. Before this, in 2021, the annual issuance of green bonds reached its highest level so far, with it totaling $596.3 billion for the first time after a decade of exponential growth (Climate Bonds Initiative, 2022). This marked a significant 75 % increase compared to 2020. Nevertheless, geopolitical instability and supply chain disruptions in 2022 caused issuers to be hesitant about offering high-credit rates, and this downside shift in the fixed-income market caused a drop in supply despite the considerable demand from investors. Furthermore, among the regions issuing green bonds, the once-dominant Europe[1 ] saw its share of the market – decline due to an international surge in green bond issuances for the Asia Pacific region,[2 ] with this being driven by growth in China (S&P global report, 2022).[3 ] Overall, the US, which has the world’s largest fixed-income market, maintained a leadership position in the green bond market, with the volume increasing by 63 % to reach $81.9 billion. The UK contributed 30 % of the total supply of sovereign green bonds, with it issuing a couple of green bonds worth $21 billion in support of its responsibilities as the host to COP26 (Climate Bonds Initiative, 2021). In addition, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, and Switzerland also took significant steps to transition towards a more climate-resilient future. This growth in the green bond markets has been documented in the literature (Fatica et al., 2021; Sangiorgi demand for them remains strong (Hacı& Schopohl, 2021). Despite a significant slowdown in the supply of green bonds due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the omero¨ glu et al., 2021). According to a recent report by the ˘ World Bank (2022), the cumulative worth of green bonds issued worldwide has surpassed the $2 trillion mark. 

Green bonds present a new investment option for financing environmentally sustainable projects, and they are considered to be on the frontlines of mitigating the adverse influences of climate change (Sreelakshmi and Greeshma, 2023). The proven potential of green bonds to channel financial resources towards sustainable investments has made them an interesting research topic among financial scholars. Investors and governments are also gradually incorporating green bonds into their fixed-income allocations to serve crucial investment needs. This shift has further been driven by the market’s impressive growth, with it expanding by about 90 % on average every year from 2016 to 2021 (Bloomberg Annual report, 2021).[4 ] Furthermore, a wider range of mutual funds that offer exposure to green bonds has provided even more opportunities for investors to participate in this expanding market (Gyura, 2020). 

Overall, the rapid ascent of green assets opened fresh investment avenues for environmentally sustainable projects. However, the world’s persistent dependence on fossil fuels, notably oil and gas, complicates the transition to a low-carbon economy. This reliance significantly impacts global market dynamics (Gormus et al., 2014; Nazlioglu et al., 2015), including those focused on green finance. Sudden changes in oil prices driven by geopolitical changes, demand and supply disruptions can propagate shocks throughout international financial systems, affecting green bond markets as well. The current work hence is driven from the necessity to understand and predict conditional volatility in developed green bond markets, leveraging high-frequency datasets that specifically delineate the influence of oil price shocks. Examining the transmission of oil price fluctuations to the fledgling green bond market is particularly timely given current geopolitical tensions and supply uncertainties (Rehman et al., 2023). Decomposing oil price changes into structural shocks (Ready, 2018) reveals whether green bonds’ upside potential remains intact across various oil market scenarios. It is also worthwhile to investigate the effect of oil shocks on the green bond markets of developed countries, as investors in these countries can invest by promoting green energy generation. 

Kilian and Park (2009) considered the nature of the shock when they conducted a seminal study to investigate whether the impact of oil prices on stock returns varies. The authors postulated that it is essential to consider whether the relationship between oil prices and stock returns is contingent upon the nature of the shock, such as by examining whether there are asymmetric effects, whether the relationship is time-varying, and whether stock returns’ response to changes in oil prices varies across industries, volatility levels, and the nature of oil consumption (Smyth & Narayan, 2018). Although governments worldwide are striving to establish substantial green bond markets, there are hurdles to accelerating their development, including global events like oil market shocks, the COVID-19 pandemic, technological advancements, and wars and other conflicts (Narayan, 2020). The recent conflict between Russia and Ukraine has further disturbed the financial system due to energy market shocks on a global scale. 

Based on the above discussion, this paper contributes to the existing literature in many main aspects: Firstly, it investigates the impact of oil-induced shocks on green bond investment in developed countries. Given the relative newness of green bonds, this asset class represents a new opportunity for combining environmental considerations with optimal portfolio returns. While numerous studies have examined clean and green energy, there is a scarcity of literature that explores how oil shocks affect risk and expectations in developed green bond markets (Rehman et al., 2023). Secondly, this study makes a methodological contribution by not relying solely on oil prices or returns and instead following the example of Ready (2018) in decomposing oil price volatility according to three preceding shocks based on demand, supply, and risk. This method has yielded significant evidence for determining whether the impact of oil prices on financial markets is due to shocks in the supply or demand of oil (Demirer et al., 2020). Since the WTI crude oil benchmark deals with a specific commodity, it may not capture the full extent of oil-driven shocks, so we use global oil and gas returns 

> 1 Europe has been a dominant force in the green bond market for some considerable time. In the first six months of 2022, five of the six largest global issuers of green bonds were based in Europe. Europe’s dominant role is reflected by the fact that 63% of the green bonds in the market in the third quarter of 2022 were denominated in euros. 

> 2 – In the second quarter, green bond issuance in the Asia Pacific region surged from $29.44 billion in the same period last year to $39.15 billion, thus increasing its share of the global green bond market from 21.7% to 35.1%. 

> 3 China strengthened its position as the world’s leading green bonds issuer in 2022 with internationally aligned green bonds being issued in the second quarter with a total value of $23.91 billion, more than double the amount from the previous year. 

> 4 Note that the Paris Agreement was signed by countries at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP21) in 2015. 

2 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

to present a clearer picture of the global factors causing oil shocks. Moreover, the Innovations VIX index is used to monitor oil price shocks by measuring the market’s reaction to sudden changes in oil prices. This study’s third contribution lies in investigating the timevarying correlation of green bonds with oil shocks across short- and long-term horizons. For this purpose, we apply an extension of wavelet correlation, which is based on wavelet theory, and this is capable of examining bivariate, partial, and multiple correlations across different frequencies and scales (e.g., Berger & Czudaj, 2020; Jiang et al., 2020). We apply wavelet coherence and cross-wavelet analysis followed by partial-and multiple-wavelet applications. Finally, we conduct wavelet VaR analysis to provide detailed information about the risk associated with a portfolio’s returns. By providing a precise analysis of how green bond markets behave across different time frames, this study will help improve our understanding of the diversification opportunities that exists among the oil and green bond markets of developed countries. 

Our findings show that there is limited correlation, particularly at low scales, for all markets. However, Norway and Sweden exhibit relatively strong correlation across low frequencies, and for Norway, the returns correlation has increased since 2013. Both these markets have shown a low risk-reduction ability across various scales. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of green bonds as a hedge against crude oil varies, with the correlation being stronger during turbulent periods. Risk shocks have a more pronounced impact on the green bond returns of Norway and Sweden at low frequencies, indicating a high degree of susceptibility to such shocks. 

The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 reviews the literature related to connections between oil shocks and green bonds. Section 3 then discusses the considered data and outlines this study’s empirical methodology, before Section 4 discusses the empirical results. Finally, Section 5 concludes the paper and provides potential policy implications. 

## **2. Literature review** 

In line with the increasing awareness of climate change and its consequences, researchers have closely examined the economic impact of a corporation’s climate and environmental initiatives on its financial performance. The global investment community also contributes to this environmental cause by investing in green and socially responsible projects, and this has inspired the rise of green securities for encouraging corporate environmental responsibility (Tolliver et al., 2020). This transition is important, because according to the Financial Stability Report (2020), a failure to adequately account for the extreme effects of climate change on economic outcomes could result in the mispricing of investment assets. 

Although the risk factors of conventional bond markets have been extensively explored, research into the volatility characteristics of eco-friendly financial instruments, specifically green bonds, remains at a nascent stage. According to Gevorkyan (2017) and Sachs (2014), green bonds can potentially distribute the cost of mitigating climate change, thereby making them appealing to the issuing firm and its shareholders. A growing body of literature also supports the notion that green assets can be effectively used to hedge against climate-induced risks (Jin et al., 2020) and to improve the diversification of stock and commodity portfolios (Nguyen et al., 2021). Thus, green bonds have gradually piqued the attention of both individual and institutional investors, with them increasingly shifting their asset allocations towards green assets in response to the rising risks presented by climate change (Krueger et al., 2020). Reboredo and Ugolini (2020) suggested that green bonds are an appealing hedging tool for the US financial market, while Han and Li (2020) observed that green bonds offer diversification advantages in the Chinese financial markets. According to Yi et al. (2021), the hedging ability of green bonds during an extreme market event (COVID-19) was extremely significant in China, because this greatly increased the cumulative abnormal return (CAR) of green bonds. 

Numerous studies have examined the impact of oil price fluctuations on renewable energy investments. From a theoretical perspective, most studies concur that an increase in oil prices stimulates greater investment in alternative energy sources as investors seek to diversify their portfolios, especially in economies that rely heavily on oil imports. Conversely, a decrease in oil prices could lead to a reduction in the issuance of green bonds, because there is less incentive to invest in renewable energy instead of continuing to rely on fossil fuels (Sadorsky, 2012; Dutta, 2017). A contrary view has been expressed by some researchers, however. For instance, Gullaksen and Auran (2017) provided empirical evidence to show that a hike in oil prices does not necessarily prompt an increase in the demand for green bonds. Similarly, Reboredo and Ugolini (2020) reported a weak association between oil prices and the green bond market, even across varying temporal horizons. 

Reboredo and Ugolini (2018), meanwhile, found that oil price changes are the primary driver of price changes for new energy stocks in the US. Several other studies have also reported a positive relationship between the oil price and alternative energy prices (Kumar et al., 2012; Managi & Okimoto, 2013; Apergis & Payne, 2015). In contrast, Sadorsky (2012) suggested that oil price shocks do not significantly affect the returns of alternative energy stocks. More recently, though, Asl et al. (2021) found that renewable energy stocks act as a good hedge against the equity risks emanating from the oil and gas sector. Given the varying approaches and samples used in previous studies, it is little surprise that their findings are contentious. Some studies have also sought to distinguish demandand supply-based shocks when analyzing the impact of oil price fluctuations (Henriques & Sadorsky, 2008; Kilian, 2009; Kilian & Park, 2009; Clements et al., 2019) on new energy markets, including green bond markets. Indeed, such shocks can affect the cost of capital for green projects, as well as affect the overall demand for green bonds among investors. Nevertheless, all the previous findings and theories help to serve the objective of this current study, namely to explore how different oil-induced shocks affect developed green bond markets. 

Broadstock and Cheng (2019) reported that green bond (GB) markets are substantially impacted by macroeconomic factors, such as daily economic movements, oil prices, investor sentiments, and monetary policy uncertainty. With a focus on establishing a dynamic connection between conventional bonds and US green bonds, Broadstock and Cheng (2019) successfully identified the determinants that play a pivotal role in either bolstering or undermining the trajectory of GB prices. Kanamura (2020) provided further evidence by demonstrating a dynamic and positive correlation between GB prices and oil prices. For their part, Naeem et al. (2021) documented an 

3 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

asymmetric connectedness between green bonds and commodities, with there being strong links between GBs and gold and silver, while the association with natural gas and crude oil was found to be weak. Likewise, Ferrer et al. (2021) suggested that there is an interdependence between the global green bond market and the traditional financial and energy markets over shorter temporal horizons (i.e., less than a week), indicating that shocks transmit promptly across markets, although there was only a weak correlation between green bond markets and oil markets, irrespective of the time frame being considered. Lee et al. (2021) investigated the relationships between geopolitical risks, oil prices, and the US GB market under various market conditions, finding that there was bidirectional causality between a green bond index and oil prices under bearish conditions, thus implying that they mutually influence each other, but this causality vanished under bullish conditions. In a subsequent study, Lee et al. (2022) revealed a strong connection between GB returns and oil shocks, with an increase in oil prices leading to a rise in geopolitical risk and a decrease in green bond returns. Conversely, a decrease in oil prices was associated with increased geopolitical risks and green bond returns. 

While examining the time-varying relationships among oil prices, green bonds, and carbon markets, Houjian et al. (2022) found a negative correlation between oil prices and green bond markets in the short-run, but this relationship became positive in the mediumrun. Conversely, Su et al. (2022) employed a quantile-on-quantile approach and discovered that oil prices influence GB markets positively in the short-run but negatively in the medium- and long-run. This reinforced the assertion of previous studies that high oil prices have a favorable effect on green bond markets in the short term, as well as being a useful hedge against oil price shocks in the medium-to-long term. Yaya et al. (2022) recently examined the volatility of green bond indices in response to various oil price shocks by using the GARCH-MIDAS model, with them reporting mixed results, as well as an asymmetric relationship between the negative and positive effects of oil shocks on the volatility of green investments. 

Some notable studies that relate closely to the present study include those of Azhgaliyeva et al. (2022) and Rehman et al. (2023). This research builds upon their work and contributes to the wider literature by investigating the impact of oil-driven shocks on the responsiveness of developed green bond markets. Studies of such topics are relatively scarce compared to the growing stream of literature for conventional asset classes. Among the few available studies, Azhgaliyeva et al. (2022) used a longitudinal multilevel model to examine how disintegrated oil price shocks affect the issuance of green bonds in the private sectors of advanced and emerging economies. Unlike with the overall bond market, their empirical analysis revealed that oil supply shocks have a positive effect on green bond issuance. Their study also emphasized the importance of issuing public sovereign green bonds to support the issuance of green bonds in the private sector. More recently, Rehman et al. (2023) explored the potential for accurately forecasting green bond returns based on oil shocks, both in-sample and out-of-sample. Their findings suggest that oil shocks have a significant and consistent power to predict green bond indices across various quantiles and during both calm and extreme periods, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The international investment community’s appetite for investing in green assets is increasing exponentially in general but particularly for green bonds (Hachenberg & Schiereck, 2018; Reboredo and Ugolini, 2020). Nevertheless, the academic research related to green bonds remains somewhat limited, mainly due to the relatively short history of the green bond market, which has developed in just over a decade and grown exceptionally fast since 2014. While many studies have analyzed the impact of oil prices on alternate energy sources (e.g., spillover effects, volatility, causality, etc.), few have explored the feedback effects of structural oil shocks—as derived from the WTI oil price benchmark, global oil and gas returns, and the Innovation to VIX index—on developed green bond markets. Our study therefore seeks to investigate this potential relationship and thereby fill a gap in the existing literature, which will in turn provide new insights for investors and policymakers. 

## **3. Data and methodology** 

_i) Data and variables_ 

## _a) Data_ 

We collected global green bonds data from the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) for the UK, the US, Japan, Canada, Australia, and Europe from November 28, 2008 to June 11, 2021. We use S&P green bond indices to evaluate the market performance of globally issued bonds financing environmentally friendly projects. These indices consist of green-labelled bonds adhering to Climate Bond Initiative criteria, measured by a capped weighted market value. To be included in the index, it must have a maturity longer than one month from the index rebalancing date. Additionally, any bonds that mature during the index period are excluded. This data period covers three significant financial crises, namely the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) of 2008–09, the Eurozone Debt Crisis (ESDC) of 2010–12, and the COVID-19 pandemic. Our motivation behind choosing these markets and study period was the desire to investigate investment behavior in developed green bond markets during a diverse range of financially turbulent situations. The bonds in the data adhere to specific criteria established by the CBI to ensure their sustainability credentials. The data were sourced from the Eikon Data Stream Database, and more information about it can be found at https://www.climatebonds.net. 

## _b) Oil shocks_ 

We follow Ready (2018) approach in decomposing oil price volatility into three forms of shock, namely demand-, supply-, and riskbased shocks. To represent the global oil industry, we utilized the World Integrated Oil and Gas Producer Index (WIOGP), which includes major public oil producers, and data for this were also sourced from DataStream. To find any unexpected changes in oil prices, we analyzed the daily returns of the second-nearest maturity NYMEX light sweet crude oil contract. To track discount rate shifts, we used the Innovation to VIX index, which is a widely recognized measure of risk-neutral expected volatility based on options data. However, the CBOE only introduced the VIX in 1986, so data availability remains an issue. We therefore analyzed the innovations in the ξVIX, using residuals from an ARMA (1,1) process, thus allowing us to identify unexpected changes in the VIX that showed a tendency to co-vary with changes in attitudes towards risk. 

_ii) Wavelet coherence_ 

4 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

Wavelet transform is a versatile and effective technique that uses a local base function to adapt the window width to different frequencies, thus addressing some of the limitations found with other methods like the Fourier transform. In this study, we adopted the approaches of Hudgins et al. (1993) and Torrence and Compo (1998) to investigate the time-varying nature of the connection between oil shocks and green bonds. This involved computing cross-wavelet coherence (a scaling function) and phase difference (a shifting function) through a continuous wavelet transform between green bond returns and oil shocks. This enabled us to identify common periodicities and correlations among the two series in order to gain insights into their relationship. 

The continuous wavelet transforms of a time series _Wx_ with respect to _t_ involves a mathematical function based on the _τ_ & _s_ translation and scaling factors, and this can be expressed as follows: 

**==> picture [448 x 22] intentionally omitted <==**

> where _ψ_ denotes the mother wavelet function, while the normalization factor 1/√s is used to maintain unit variance, or a constant variance, across various scales of the wavelet function. The scale factor _S_ governs the stretching or shrinking of the wavelet function 

> over time, while _τ_ is the translation parameter that controls the position of the wavelet function. This function involves integrating the time series _x_ ( _t_ ) and then multiplying it by the scaled and shifted wavelet function _ψ_ ( _t_ − _Sτ_ ) with a scaling factor of √1 _s_ ~~[.]~~[ The integration is ] performed over the entire range of _t_ , from negative infinity to positive infinity. 

We also adopted the Morlet wavelet, which is the most frequently used wavelet function in wavelet analysis, from among the various mother wavelet functions.[5 ] Aguiar-Conraria and Soares (2014) recommended using an analytic wavelet like the Morlet wavelet for measuring the synchronicity between time series due to its ability to instantaneously estimate the amplitude and phase of the signal in the vicinity of each time/scale location (τ, s). This is expressed as follows: 

**==> picture [448 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

1 where _ω_ 0 is the central frequency and _t_ is the time. Its unity energy is ensured by the _π_[−] 4 term, thus making it suitable for analyzing time series with multiple frequency components. 

Next, the squared wavelet coherence of Torrence and Webster (1999) was employed to interpret and understand the integration of the time series in the preceding step. This is defined as: 

**==> picture [448 x 26] intentionally omitted <==**

where the function S(.) is the smoothing operator for averaging the wavelet transformation of a time series across a range of scales in both time and frequency. This smoothing process is essential to prevent the wavelet coherency being equal to one at all times and scales. The wavelet coherence _R_[2] ( _τ, s_ ) is limited to values between 0 and 1. (For further details, see the work of Aguiar-Conraria et al., 2008.) The value of the wavelet coherence _R_[2] ( _τ, s_ ) at a specific scale reflects the strength and consistency of the linear relationship between the time series, with a value close to 0 indicating a weak or nonexistent relationship, and a value close to 1 suggesting a strong relationship. Note that the squared wavelet coherence only measures the magnitude of the relationship between time series and not the polarity. Nevertheless, plotting the squared wavelet coherence as a function of time and frequency scales allows us to visualize and analyze the strength and consistency of the relationship between green bonds and oil shocks across different time periods and frequency ranges. 

Next, we applied the phase-difference approach developed by Torrence and Compo (1998) to determine the time lag between the – oscillations of two time series. This technique enabled us to identify time frequency regions where the green bond and oil shock time series exhibit positive or negative co-movement by analyzing the phase difference at different scales. It can be expressed mathematically as: 

**==> picture [448 x 22] intentionally omitted <==**

where _I_ and _R_ denote the imaginary and real parts, respectively, of the smoothed cross-wavelet transform. The path difference refers to the difference in the distance traveled by the two waves in a unit of time, and this can be employed to characterize the phase difference between green bond returns and oil shocks. For example, a phase difference of zero indicates that the two series are moving synchronously. Studying the phase difference can shed light on the lag between time series, so the lag between green bond returns ( _yt_ ) and oil shocks ( _xt_ ) can be determined through the phase difference _φxy_ . As mentioned above, when two time series move synchronously for – a specified time frequency, their phase difference will be zero. If the phase difference between x(t) and y(t) falls in the range of (0, π/2), it indicates a positive correlation where y(t) leads x(t). However, when the phase difference falls in the range of (π/2, 0), it implies a negative correlation, with x(t) leading y(t). Similarly, if the phase difference falls in the range of (π/2, π), it means x(t) leads y(t), while y(t) leads x(t) when the phase difference falls in the range of (π, π/2). 

> 5 Several different mother wavelet functions—such as Daubechies, Haar, Morlet, and Meyer—are available. 

5 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

## _iii) Partial wavelet coherence (PWC)_ 

Partial wavelet coherence, which is also referred to as partial correlation, is a statistical technique for measuring the correlation between two time series while also considering the influence of a third series. It generates three sets of coefficients between the various time series and serves as a valuable tool for analyzing complex time series data. As such, this tool enables us to determine the existence and magnitude of shared periodicities or correlations between the principal variables of oil markets ( _x_ ) and green bond returns ( _y_ ) while accounting for the impact of oil shocks ( _z_ ) as a third control variable in a multivariate framework. This approach allows for a more comprehensive understanding of the relationships among these time series and addresses a limitation with the previously defined wavelet coherence methods. 

The application of PWC to our three time series—namely oil returns ( _xt_ ), green bond returns ( _yt_ ), and oil shocks ( _zt_ )—can be expressed as follows: 

**==> picture [448 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

In this equation, _R_ ( _x, y_ ), _R_ ( _x, z_ ), & _R_ ( _y, z_ ) represent the wavelet coherence between the respective data series. The denominator in the above expression adjusts for the correlation between the two control time series (i.e., x and z, y and z) by subtracting their product from 1. The resulting _R_[2] _p_[(] _[x][,][ y][,][ z]_[)][value ][ranges from 0 (no relationship) to 1 (a perfect relationship) (][Hkiri et al., 2018][). An interpretation of Eq. ] (5) is therefore similar to that of _R_[2] ( _τ, s_ ) in Eq. (3). If the relationship indicated by _R_[2] _p_[(] _[x][,][ y][,][ z]_[)][is weaker in comparison to ] _[R]_[2][(] _[τ][,][ s]_[)][, it ] suggests that the correlation between _xt_ (oil returns) and _yt_ (green bonds returns) may be influenced by a shared correlation with _zt_ (oil shocks). 

## _iv) Multiple wavelet coherency (MWC)_ 

Next, we employed MWC to assess the contributions of oil returns and oil shocks to green bond returns. This technique enables us to highlight the impact of a set of independent variables on a single dependent variable across different timescales. While PWC considers the influence of a single control variable, multiple wavelet coherence involves a higher dimensionality for the data. In other words, it identifies and estimates the contributions of multiple independent variables, _xt_ (oil returns) and _yt_ (oil shocks) in this case, on a dependent variable, namely _zt_ (green bond returns). It can be specified as 

**==> picture [448 x 22] intentionally omitted <==**

This expression quantifies the proportion of wavelet power for _x_ and _y_ linked to _z_ . The numerator accounts for the contributions of each independent variable to the dependent variable, while the denominator adjusts for the correlation between the independent variables. The values of _x_ and _y_ refer to oil and green bond returns, while the value of _z_ corresponds to oil shocks. We used a Monte Carlo method to estimate the MWC. 

## _v) Wavelet VaR_ 

The wavelet VaR approach uses wavelets to decompose a financial portfolio’s returns into different frequency components before estimating the VaR for each component. This allows for a more detailed analysis of risk at different time scales than would be possible with traditional methods that only consider the overall variability. 

We investigated the relationships between different green bond markets and oil shocks by following the approach of Rua and Nunes (2009) in engaging in a wavelet-based value at risk (VaR) exercise. The value at risk (VaR) for a portfolio can be given with a (1- _α_ ) confidence level using the following equation: 

**==> picture [448 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

> Eq. (7) defines VaR as the threshold loss with a probability of 1- _α_ being exceeded, where α represents the confidence level. _Io_ , _ϕ_ ( _._ ), and ∅p correspond to the portfolio’s initial investment, standard normal distribution, and distribution of potential losses, respectively. The CoVaR of a portfolio with _n_ assets can be determined as follows: 

**==> picture [448 x 22] intentionally omitted <==**

> The weight of each asset in the portfolio is denoted by _ωi_ , while _σi_ represents the volatility of the returns for each asset. The returns of the assets in the portfolio are given by _ri_ . We decompose the variance of a portfolio into two components, where one is determined by the variances of its individual asset returns and the other is based on the risk of the correlations of a portfolio’s asset returns, as represented by the covariance. To analyze how the interdependence of a portfolio’s assets changes over time, we adopted the approach of Rua and Nunes (2009) in calculating the “portfolio variance ratio,” which is based on the portfolio’s variance as calculated using the full expression in Eq. (8) and the variance as calculated without considering the covariance terms in Eq. (8). 

By decomposing the portfolio into variances and covariances, we could then examine the impact of the covariance terms on the portfolio’s overall variance and understand how the correlations between the portfolio’s assets change over time. 

An increase ( _>_ 1) in the “portfolio variance ratio” suggests a greater degree of co-movement among the components when normalized by their respective variances, and vice versa. This implies that there is a stronger (or weaker) connection between the 

6 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

components in the portfolio, even when we control for the individual component variances. However, when the ratio equals one, it implies that the correlation between assets does not impact the overall variance of the portfolio. 

## **4. Analysis and discussion** 

Fig. 1 presents a graphical representation of the WTI crude oil, S&P Global 1200 oil and gas, and the VIX indices. The S&P Global 1200 oil and gas and WTI crude oil experienced an upward trend from 2008 to 2013, followed by an abrupt fall from mid-2014 to early 2015. The fall in prices was driven by demand and supply shocks in the global crude oil market (Baumeister & Kilian, 2015), such as excess global crude oil supply (including excess US production), easing geopolitical tensions, the OPEC decision to maintain production levels, and sluggish global economic activity (World Bank Report, 2018). The next substantial fall in early 2020 was triggered by the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and a price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia in March and April of 2020. This conflict caused the benchmark WTI crude oil price to drop by 10 % before settling at $42.10 per barrel on March 6, 2020, as can be seen in Fig. 1.[6 ] The stock market volatility index decreased significantly after the GFC of 2007–08, with it remaining relatively low until the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020. During the pandemic, the volatility index increased significantly, reflecting how the health crisis caused uncertainty and unpredictability in the markets (Rehman et al., 2023). 

Fig. 2 illustrates the pricing and returns behavior among the developed GB markets. The pricing pattern is consistent for most markets, including the US, the UK, New Zealand, and Switzerland, but a few markets (e.g., Europe and Denmark) experienced upside trends over the entire sample period. The pricing pattern for Norway and Sweden was consistent until 2013, when it started showing marginal growth. Note that before 2013, only one GB was issued in Sweden and Norway (Torvanger et al., 2021), but both countries have since become key players in the global green bond market with a significant number of issuances in various forms. In contrast, Japan showed consistent pricing patterns up to 2012, which was followed by a growth trajectory. This was likely due to efforts to promote sustainable finance and support the low-carbon transition following the Fukushima disaster of 2011. This was further reinforced by the Development Bank of Japan’s first green bond issuance in October 2014 (Tainaka et al., 2021). 

Alternatively, the daily return dynamics for all indices show a high degree of turbulence throughout the entire sample period, although particular volatility was observed in specific periods, such as the 2008–09 GFC, the 2010–2012 ESDC, the 2014–15 oil price crash, and the 2020 pandemic period. This was particularly true for Japan, Norway, and New Zealand, although the green bond markets of the US and Switzerland showed relatively consistent return patterns across the entire sample period. 

Table 1 presents the descriptive statistics for the green bond markets. The mean daily returns for all these GB markets are quite low, with New Zealand and Switzerland even being negative. However, the maximum daily returns from these GB markets ranges from 0.0222 for Sweden to 0.0741 for UK GBs, indicating that there is potential for significant returns on investments. The overall variance in the returns is low, with it being greatest for Japanese GBs. Most of the markets demonstrate positive skewness with higher peaks and fat tails, with the exceptions of Europe, Denmark, and Switzerland, which have negatively skewed GB markets. These values point – towards non-normality in the returns, which is further confirmed by the Jarque Bera statistics. In contrast, WTI crude oil and global oil and gas returns show higher means and standard deviations than GBs, reflecting the considerable volatility in energy markets. A positive skewness, a leptokurtic distribution, and the JB values indicate frequent positive returns and non-normal distributions. We then employed the ADF and PP tests to detect for the presence of a unit root, as well as KPSS to investigate stationarity. The ADF and PP tests indicated that the return series does not feature a unit root, while the KPSS test confirmed the stationarity of the return series. The Q(20) and Q[2] (20) tests indicated that there was no significant serial correlation in the residuals or the squared residuals for any series, while the ARCH test suggested that heteroscedasticity was present in all series. 

Table 2 presents the return correlations for the nine green bond markets along with the WTI, global oil and gas returns, and VIX. Our results show that with the exception of the European GB market, each market exhibited a statistically significant correlation with the other markets. Nevertheless, the magnitude of these correlations is generally low, indicating that GBs have diversification potential for hedging against changes in the international oil market. Indeed, there was a mix of positive and negative correlations between the GB markets and energy returns. Norway, New Zealand, and Sweden exhibited negative correlations with both energy returns, while the UK GB market only negatively correlated with global oil and gas returns. We can also observe heterogeneous behavior when it comes to the VIX index and GB markets. 

i. Cross wavelet analysis 

In this section, we present the results of the cross-wavelet analysis between GB markets and WTI oil returns in Fig. 3. This indicates that the pair-wise correlation between WTI prices and green bond returns is minimal, particularly over short-term investment horizons (i.e., higher frequency bands). We can also observe low correlation coefficients throughout the sampling period, although the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic is a notable exception to this, such that from 2020 to the first quarter of 2021, there was a strong correlation between GBs and oil returns. This correlation was sustained across all frequencies in 2020 as the world dealt with the pandemic. This correlation persisted at a high level of magnitude with low-frequency periods, with it being most pronounced in Norway and least pronounced in Switzerland. Furthermore, we can observe some slight correlation at the onset of the sampling period, which coincides with the 2008–09 GFC, and this is most pronounced for the US, Europe, the UK, Japan, Denmark, and Switzerland. During the COVID19 period, we can see how GBs and oil returns remained in phase for low-frequency periods. Overall, these findings indicate that GB 

> 6 – There was a massive drop in Brent and WTI prices from March to April 2020. This was when the Russia Saudi price war escalated and sent WTI spot prices plunging to negative territory. This drop can be attributed to a price cut from the Saudi government that was announced on March 6, 2020. WTI crude oil spot prices dropped to $46.78 per barrel in March 2020 before falling to a historic low of $-36.98 per barrel in April. 

7 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

**==> picture [436 x 292] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
120 2500<br>100 2000<br>80<br>1500<br>60<br>1000<br>40<br>20 500<br>0 0<br>2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020<br>a. WTI crude oil b. Global oil and gas<br>90<br>80<br>70<br>60<br>50<br>40<br>30<br>20<br>10<br>0<br>2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020<br>c. VIX<br>Fig. 1. Pricing dynamics.<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


markets and oil returns are characterized by a limited degree of interdependence, except during the COVID-19 period, such that despite GBs not correlating with the international oil market, their behavior does change during crisis periods. 

ii. The wavelet coherence results 

Fig. 4 presents a significant yet irregular coherency that presents as small patches across low and medium frequencies for all the markets, thus emphasizing a low level of connectedness between GBs and the international oil markets. No coherency was observed across high-frequency scales for any market. Nevertheless, as the frequency decreases, the correlation increases, albeit inconsistently, at the beginning (post-GFC) and end (COVID-19) of the sampling period, thus highlighting the time-varying nature of the correlation during turbulent conditions. Similarly, the GB markets of Europe, Denmark, and New Zealand show comparable behaviors, with only a few small significant patches at medium- and long-run frequencies, most notably during the 2014–16 and 2020–21 periods. Furthermore, New Zealand’s GB market exhibited more pronounced behavior over longer periods (256–512 days) when compared to the other two mentioned markets. As for the GB markets of the UK and Sweden, there are only a few inconsistently coherent regions for the middle frequencies. However, Norway’s GB market is a different story with huge patches of significant correlation during 2013–2016 and 2020–21 at the highest scale (128–256 days), as well as a significant but inconsistent relationship for medium and low frequencies during the post-2013 period. It is worth noting here that Norway entered the global green bond market as a significant player after issuing its first green bonds in 2013 (Pawłowski, 2018). Moreover, Norway’s economy is highly dependent on oil and gas production, which means it is more exposed to the negative effects of oil shocks than most economies (Hamledar et al., 2019). Consequently, in periods of economic turbulence, the impact of oil shocks on Norway’s economy can be substantial, which explains the stronger correlation between GBs and oil returns. Finally, the correlation between the GB market of Switzerland and WTI oil returns was pronounced during the 2010–2011 and 2019–21 periods for medium-to-long-range frequencies. 

iii. In-and out-of-phase comovements 

Our examination reveals mixed phase results when examining the wavelet coherence between each GB market and oil returns. More specifically, we can see a positive relationship, or in-phase coherence, between crude oil returns and the GB markets of the US, Japan, Europe, Denmark, and Switzerland across various periods ranging from 64 to 514 days, with this coherence being much more – prominent during the pandemic period of 2020 21. In addition, the US and Japanese GB markets show a positive association for the 8–128 days period, while the Swiss GB market exhibited a similar pattern between 2008 and 2010 for a 128–256 day horizon. It is notable that for this period, the Swiss GB market lags oil returns, while we can observe negative (out-of-phase) behavior between the GB markets of Norway and Sweden and oil returns. Notably, this relationship is more pronounced during 2013–2021 with 64–256 day periods, with Norway’s GB market leading oil returns. Moreover, Sweden’s GB market negatively correlated with oil returns between – 2011 and 2015 and during the last quarter of 2020 for 64 256 day periods. In contrast, the US and Japanese GB markets had a positive (in-phase) relationship with oil returns during 2008–2010 and later in 2020–21. We can also observe how the European and Danish GB markets had a positive relationship with oil returns during 2020–21. Moreover, Switzerland shows a positive relationship for 64–256 

8 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

**==> picture [466 x 483] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
140 0.08 140 0.04<br>120 0.06 120 0.03<br>100 0.04 100 0.02<br>80 0.02 80 0.01<br>60 0 60 0<br>40 -0.02 40 -0.01<br>20 -0.04 20 -0.02<br>0 -0.06 0 -0.03<br>2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020<br>Prices Returns Prices Returns<br>160 0.08 160 0.06<br>0.05<br>140 140<br>0.06 0.04<br>120 120 0.03<br>100 0.04 100 0.02<br>0.01<br>80 0.02 80<br>0<br>60 0 60 -0.01<br>40 40 -0.02<br>-0.02 -0.03<br>20 20<br>-0.04<br>0 -0.04 0 -0.05<br>2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020<br>Prices Returns Prices Returns<br>140 0.05 180 0.05<br>120 0.04 160 0.04<br>0.03 140 0.03<br>100 0.02 120 0.02<br>80 0.01 100 0.01<br>0<br>60 -0.01 80 0<br>40 -0.02 60 -0.01<br>-0.03 40 -0.02<br>20 -0.04 20 -0.03<br>0 -0.05 0 -0.04<br>2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020<br>Prices Returns Prices Returns<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Fig. 2.** Pricing and Returns of Green Bonds. 

day periods between 2019 and 2021, when its GB market lagged oil returns. 

iv. The partial wavelet coherence (PWC) analysis 

Fig. 5 shows the results of the PWC analysis, which examines the returns connectedness between green bonds and WTI crude oil after eliminating the effect of preceding oil shocks. We provide these results specific to individual countries for improved clarity. 

## _**a) US**_ 

The first plot (a1) illustrates the co-movements between oil and GB returns in the US, with these only being visible for mediumfrequency bands (16–128 days). Notably, this correlation tends to be more pronounced during the post-GFC period (2008–09) and the first quarter of 2021 after cancelling out the effect of supply shocks (plot a1). Towards the end of the study period, meanwhile, we can observe a similar effect for demand shocks (a2), as well as another in 2019 for risk shocks (a3). Collectively, though, such correlation occurs only in small patches, and it is not unified and lacks any noticeable significance across lower or higher frequencies. The 

9 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

**==> picture [466 x 318] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
120 0.05 140 0.04<br>100 0.04 120 0.03<br>0.03<br>100 0.02<br>80 0.02<br>0.01 80 0.01<br>60<br>0 60 0<br>40 -0.01<br>40 -0.01<br>-0.02<br>20 20 -0.02<br>-0.03<br>0 -0.04 0 -0.03<br>2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020<br>Prices Returns Prices Returns<br>120 0.1<br>0.08<br>100 0.06<br>80 0.04<br>0.02<br>60 0<br>-0.02<br>40 -0.04<br>20 -0.06<br>-0.08<br>0 -0.1<br>2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020<br>Prices Returns<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Fig. 2.** ( _continued_ ). 

## **Table 1** 

Descriptive statistics. 

|**Table 1**<br>Descriptive statistics.||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Descriptive properties|Mean|Max.|Min.|Std. Dev.|Skewness|Kurtosis|Jarque-Bera|
|US GBs|0.0000|0.0682|−0.0378|0.0052|0.9875|22.7390|53,569|
|Euro GBs|0.0001|0.0279|−0.0249|0.0036|−0.2521|9.7909|6312.3|
|UK GBs|0.0001|0.0741|−0.0352|0.0056|1.1758|20.9774|44,746|
|Japan GBs|0.0001|0.0532|−0.0430|0.0069|0.0163|9.4841|5723.3|
|Sweden GBs|0.0000|0.0222|−0.0186|0.0041|0.0273|4.0747|157.64|
|Norway GBs|0.0001|0.0409|−0.0323|0.0054|0.3930|8.0217|3516.8|
|New Zealand GBs|−0.0001|0.0373|−0.0345|0.0058|0.2060|6.5145|1704.5|
|Denmark GBs|0.0001|0.0278|−0.0249|0.0036|−0.2535|9.8106|6349.1|
|Switzerland GBs|−0.0001|0.0833|−0.1190|0.0055|−2.3710|95.3550|1,164,133|
|Crude oil|0.0003|0.3002|−0.2822|0.0280|0.7253|25.7773|70,909|
|Global Oil&Gas|0.0000|0.1669|−0.1928|0.0150|−0.7776|25.4048|68,660|
|Log VIX|2.8866|4.4151|2.2127|0.3725|0.8381|3.4912|415.31|
|_Statistical properties_|ADF|PP|KPSS|Q(20)|Q2(20)|ARCH||
|US GBs|−57.4813***|−57.6590***|0.1074|83.269***|1690.9*|37.2638***||
|Euro GBs|−52.2660***|−52.1560***|0.0737|77.427***|3209.1***|33.5973***||
|UK GBs|−54.7709***|−54.7707***|0.0347|40.642***|484.24***|9.8505***||
|Japan GBs|−58.2689***|−58.3116***|0.0441|64.342***|2790.0***|40.3363***||
|Sweden GBs|−59.1671***|−59.3687***|0.1025|17.077|137.76***|94.1210***||
|Norway GBs|−57.7556***|−57.9721***|0.0804|26.830|1640.8***|39.6400***||
|New Zealand GBs|−61.1486***|−61.2666***|0.1864|51.117***|1210.6***|22.1299***||
|Denmark GBs|−52.2995***|−52.2162***|0.0741|76.973***|3272.3***|35.0744***||
|Switzerland GBs|−40.4545***|−51.0196***|0.0406|118.88***|276.99***|12.5310***||
|Crude oil|−57.4053***|−57.3982***|0.1107|59.932***|3289.4***|96.5695***||
|Global Oil&Gas|−37.4790***|−54.6909***|0.0707|92.182***|2059.2***|955.329***||
|Log VIX|−5.9210***|−5.5783***|1.5496|4779.0***|3578.0***|1704.56***||



**Note** : *, ** and *** represent figures at 1, 5 and 10 percent respectively. 

10 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

## **Table 2** 

Unconditional correlation. 

|**Table 2**<br>Unconditional correlation.||||
|---|---|---|---|
||CRUDEOIL|GLOBAL OIL AND GAS|INNOVATIONSVIX|
|Switzerland GBs|0.1067***|0.1789***|−0.1450***|
|Denmark GBs|0.0630***|0.0583***|−0.0592***|
|Euro GBs|0.0616|0.0589**|−0.0574|
|UK GBs|0.0001***|−0.0357***|0.0282***|
|Japan GBs|0.2204***|0.3795***|−0.2678***|
|Norway GBs|−0.2288***|−0.3599***|0.1841***|
|New Zealand GBs|−0.0993***|−0.1864***|0.1224***|
|Sweden GBs|−0.1336***|−0.2581***|0.1412***|
|US GBs|0.1753***|0.3142***|−0.1285***|



**Note** : *, ** and *** represent figures at 1,5 and 10 percent respectively. 

results imply that after controlling for the effect of oil shocks, there is no significant correlation between the returns of green bonds and oil, thus highlighting a potential for diversification by investing in the US GB market to hedge against international oil price movements. 

## _**b) Europe**_ 

The results reveal notable differences in the correlation patterns for the GB markets of Europe and the UK with oil returns when compared to the US GB market. Indeed, we can observe a greater degree of correlation between European/UK green bonds and oil returns after controlling for the effect of risk shocks (b3, c3). This effect is particularly pronounced for the Euro in intermediate (32–64 days) and high frequencies (512–1024 days) and exhibits an inconsistent pattern for the UK across intermediate frequencies (32–256 days) from 2011 to 2019. Moreover, the correlation appears to be relatively insensitive to the influence of supply and demand shocks (b1-b2 & c1-c3) across different timescales. 

## _**c) Japan**_ 

Returns from the Japanese GB market exhibit inconsistent yet significant correlation patterns after controlling for the impact of – supply shocks (d1), particularly for intermediate frequencies (32 256 days), over the study period. No correlation can be observed at either the high or low frequencies. However, the partial wavelet correlation between the Japanese GB market and oil returns was – – significant during the GFC (2008 09) period with 32 64 day periods after controlling for risk shocks (d3). This differs from the results for the US and European markets, suggesting that the Japanese GB market is more affected by changes in the international oil market during crisis periods. 

## _**d) Norway and Sweden**_ 

The dynamics of the Norwegian and Swedish GB markets suggest that their correlation with oil returns is much more significant after controlling for risk shocks (e3, f3) in comparison to supply and demand shocks (e1, e2 & f1, f2, respectively). Such a strong – correlation is absent from the GB markets of the US, the UK, Japan, and Europe, particularly for 512 1024 day periods during the 2012–2018 period. Furthermore, we can observe a significant coherence for the medium frequencies during the 2013–15 period after controlling for demand and risk shocks, thus indicating the existence of a strong relationship during this period. The Norwegian GB market’s relationship with oil returns is more pronounced than Sweden’s after cancelling for the effect of risk shocks (f3), suggesting that the former market is more susceptible to risk shocks. This relationship suggests that controlling for risk captures more of the true relationship between their green bond and oil markets. Norway and Sweden seem to have green bond markets where the correlations with oil prices are less explained by oil market fundamentals and more influenced by exogenous risk exposure affecting global oil prices. Given their sensitivity to oil price movements as oil-exporting nations, controlling for oil demand/supply shocks not only partially isolates the direct oil price impact but also strengthens the remaining correlation. In contrast, we found no significant relationship between GBs and oil returns after controlling for supply shocks (e1, f1), suggesting that supply shocks may be particularly important for explaining the relationship between GBs and international oil market returns. 

## _**e) New Zealand, Denmark, and Switzerland**_ 

The dynamics of the GB markets in New Zealand, Denmark, and Switzerland exhibit a distinct effect when controlling for risk shocks (g3, h3, & i3, respectively), with them being more prominent than when controlling for demand and supply shocks (g2, h2, i2 & g1, h1, i1, respectively). This relationship is even more noticeable in the cases of New Zealand (plots g1-g2) and Denmark (plots h1– – h2), where it is observed with longer periods of 256 512 days and 512 1024 days, respectively. We also found a few traces of irregular comovement between them in the mid-frequency range. Nevertheless, after controlling for the effects of demand and supply shocks, this relationship tends to weaken across all three markets and scales. The results also suggest that the GB market of New Zealand exhibits this effect for only a brief period, with supply and risk shocks occurring during 2017–2019 and 2013–16, respectively. 

v. The MWC analysis 

Fig. 6 presents the multivariate wavelet coherence between GB markets and international oil returns in the presence of oil shocks enhancing the robustness of our analysis. Similar to our previous findings for PWC (Fig. 5), we present country-specific results for clarity. 

## _**a) US**_ 

In plots a1-a3, our analysis highlights how the multivariate correlation between US GBs and oil returns is strong across the mediumfrequency cycle with both supply and risk shocks. In particular, the correlation is strong during 2008–2012 and 2019–2021, but it diminishes with lower frequency cycles. We can also observe how US GBs exhibited greater coherence with oil returns and demand 

11 

_North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

_M.U. Rehman et al._ 

**Fig. 3.** Cross Wavelet Analysis. _**Notes to**_ Fig. 3: The U-shaped curves (cone of influence) feature black patches denoting significant regions at a 5% level determined through Monte-Carlo simulation. A color code distinguishes wavelet power levels: green for low coherence and yellow for higher coherence. The graph’s X-axis represents the timeline, while the Y-axis represents scale or frequency (in days). Arrows on the graph indicate phase differences between time series, with right-pointing arrows indicating positive correlation (in phase) between green bonds and oil shocks, and left- 

12 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

pointing arrows indicating negative correlation (out of phase). Right-up arrows indicate oil shocks leading, while left-down arrows suggest oil shocks lagging. Conversely, left-up arrows (or right-down arrows) imply green bonds leading (lagging). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 

**Fig. 3.** ( _continued_ ). 

shocks during 2008–2013 and 2017–2020 for medium-run periods. These changes are possibly due to the global financial crisis (2008–09) and ESDC (2010–12), when oil prices were highly volatile. The influence extends to OPEC supply cuts and rising shale oil – – production (2009 2014), likely spilling over to affect US green bond returns. The 2019 2021 period saw oil demand collapse from COVID-19 before rebounding strongly, further transmits macroeconomic turmoil as oil price shocks to US green bonds. 

## _**b) UK**_ 

In contrast, the multiple wavelet coherence for the UK and European GB markets (plots b1-b3 & c1-c3) with oil returns is weaker than with the US market across all scales. More specifically, the coherence between these markets and oil returns is inconsistent, with just small patches of coherence on a consistent basis, mostly across high-to-medium frequencies. For the European and UK GB markets, each oil shock appears to be significant in the correlation between GBs and oil returns, thus suggesting that oil shocks play an important role in determining the relationship between GBs and oil returns. 

## _**c) Japan**_ 

The relationship between Japan’s GB market and oil (plots d1-d3) appears to be more significant once the effects of risk shocks are considered, such that we can see many small patches of significant co-movement in subpanel d3 (risk), more so than with the effects of demand and supply shocks, across the mid-to-high frequency range. Unlike with our previous results for the UK and European markets, we observe a more pronounced relationship between the returns of Japanese GBs and oil returns when considering the effect of each oil shock, particularly for risk shocks across short-to-medium frequency periods. This correlation also appears to be strong, as evidenced – by the light green color. Nevertheless, no coherence was reported for longer horizons (256 512 days) for any shock, suggesting that the relationship between Japanese GBs and oil returns only prevails over the short term and may not persist. 

## _**d) Sweden and Norway**_ 

The results for Sweden (plots e1-e3) highlight a significant relationship between its GB market and oil returns together with oil – shocks during mid-to-long cycles. The results reveal a consistent coherency in the longest wavelet (512 1024 days) cycle for all sources – – of oil shocks, with an intense nexus being apparent over the 2011 2015 sub-period for supply shocks and the 2012 2015 sub-period for risk and demand shocks with a medium scale (64–128 days). These findings highlight the significance of supply-, risk-, and demandbased shocks across different periods. We also noted the presence of other inconsistent and coherent islands with the short and medium (8–128 days) ranges, which helps to explain the contribution that each oil shock makes to the nexus between green bonds and oil returns. 

The impact of oil shocks on Norway’s GB market (plots f1-f3) is much stronger than with other GB markets. In particular, the intensity and consistency of this correlation increases significantly over long time horizons. Our results show the greatest degree of returns comovement for each oil shock occurred between 2013 and 2016 (plots f1, f2, f3), especially across longer horizons. We found that the short-to-mid-term time horizons (8–32 & 32–128 days) also appear to be highly sensitive to the effects of each oil shock, with there being a more prominent effect after 2013. The sensitivity of Norwegian GBs is not surprising and can be attributed to a few key factors. Firstly, the country’s dependence on oil exports results in more direct transmission of oil price volatility to its green bonds. Secondly, increased global financial integration post-2013 exposes Norway’s markets more to international oil price shocks than just domestic effects (Bein & Mehmet, 2016; Basher et al., 2018). Thirdly, Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, funded by oil profits, ’ ’s broader bonds to significantly invests in the country s bond market, with holdings fluctuating with oil prices, thereby linking Norway oil (Fotak et al., 2017; Bergholt et al., 2019). 

## _**e) New Zealand, Denmark and Switzerland**_ 

The effects of WTI oil returns are most pronounced for New Zealand’s GBs (plots g1-g3) when considering risk shocks, with this market experiencing the strongest correlation between 2011 and 2018 for all shocks, with the period between 2013 and 2016 being particularly prominent. All three shocks contribute consistently for short-, medium-, and long-run periods, as evidenced by the small 

13 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

**Fig. 4.** Wavelet Coherence Analysis. _**Notes to**_ Fig. 4 _**:**_ The U-shaped curves (cone of influence) contain thick black enclosed patches that indicate the region of significance at a 5% level, determined through the Monte-Carlo simulation approach. A color code is designated to represent the range of wavelet power, where green signifies low coherence power and yellow signifies higher coherence power. The scale represents different levels of correlation (phase difference), between the oil shock and green bond series. The X-axis corresponds to the timeline, while the Y-axis represents the scale or frequency (in days). The arrows on the graph indicate the phase difference between the time series. Right-pointing arrows represent green bond and oil shocks are in phase (positively related), while left-pointing arrows represent they out of phase (negatively related). Right-up arrows indicate that oil shocks are leading, while left-down arrows suggest that oil shocks are lagging. Conversely, left-up arrows (or right-down arrows) imply that the green bonds are leading (lagging). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 

patches of coherence. Notably, the strength and consistency of this correlation increase significantly over long time cycles for all oil shocks. 

Plots h1, h2, and h3 reveal a clear relationship between Danish GBs and oil returns. The findings indicate that demand shocks have a substantial effect on this relationship throughout the study period, although it remains inconsistent for short- and long-run fre– quencies (8 512 days). We also found that demand shocks have a more pronounced effect with a medium horizon when compared with supply and risk shocks. Similar to the Norway and New Zealand GB markets, Denmark also exhibits a consistent return correlation at 

14 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

**Fig. 4.** ( _continued_ ). 

the longest horizons (514–1024 days). However, unlike them, the duration is shorter—from 2013 to 2017 for oil demand and risk shocks and from 2011 to 2018 for supply shocks. 

The wavelet multiple correlation for Switzerland (plots i1-i3) appears to be significant across all frequencies, although we see less pronounced results between 2013 and 2018 for low-frequency periods. The correlation between GBs and oil returns is particularly – significant at the beginning of the study period (2011) with medium periods (64 256) and towards the end of the study period (2017–21) with 64–512 day cycles, reflecting financial crisis (ESDC), geopolitical tensions (China-US relations), OPEC oil reduction in 2017 and late 2018, the oil price crash in late 2018, and the impact of COVID-19 in 2020–21. Overall, we can see that each oil shock is important when considering the relationship between GBs and WTI oil returns. 

vi. Wavelet VaR 

Fig. 7 presents the results of the wavelet VaR analysis, which aims to convey the impact of oil returns and the preceding shocks on GB markets. This measures the difference between the VaR of GBs and the VaR of a portfolio that includes both green bonds and oil stocks after considering the effects of oil shocks. A larger difference between these VaR measures indicates a greater risk reduction for the GB portfolio, while a smaller difference suggests there are limited or no diversification benefits. 

We can observe how incorporating oil and the preceding shocks into the portfolio reduces risk, particularly for high-frequency periods. However, the combination of oil and green bonds offers diversification benefits, the effect is limited. Notably, an irregular pattern emerges, with there being significant risk reduction for limited periods in the US (2008–11), Japan (2008–2012), the UK (2011), and Switzerland (2011) with high frequencies (8–64 days). These periods coincide with the Global Financial Crisis (2008–09) and the Eurozone Crisis (2010–12). These findings are expected and support the study of Rua and Nunes (2009), which highlighted a correlation between the comovements of financial markets and economic instability. More specifically, the authors reported an 80 % increase in the VaR ratio at low frequencies for a portfolio composed of German, Japanese, UK, and US market indices from January 1973 to December 2007. Moreover, they found that the intensity of comovements was greatest during periods of economic crisis, such as the 1987 US crash and the late 1990s bubble crash. Our findings also concur with those of Junior et al. (2020), who reported that value at risk was higher during periods of economic turbulence, with risk being greater in long-term cycles, thus emphasizing the significance of closely monitoring comovement among investments in times of economic turbulence. Furthermore, our graphical representation reveals that GB portfolios in Sweden and Norway provide the least diversification benefits, especially after 2013 across all frequencies. This outcome matches expectations due to these markets’ proven leadership in sustainable finance and rapid growth in the green bond market since 2013, driving green bonds from a niche asset class to a mainstream financial market (Maltais & Nykvist, –128 2020). However, diversification is still relatively effective for Norway, particularly across short-to-mid-ranged frequencies (8 

15 

_North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

_M.U. Rehman et al._ 

**Fig. 5.** Partial Wavelet Coherence. _**Notes to**_ Fig. 5 _**:** The thick black enclosed patches indicate a region of high significance at a 5 % level, determined through the application of the Monte-Carlo simulation method. A color bar scale is employed to depict wavelet power, where green represents low coherence power, and as the shade lightens towards yellow, it indicates higher power levels. The scale represents distinct levels of correlation, specifically the phase difference, between oil shocks and various green bond indexes. The Y-axis represents the scale or frequency (in days), ranging from one day (scale 1) to approximately 256 days (scale 256). The X-axis corresponds to the timeline of the sample period. The color scheme assigns a higher correlation between variables to the hue yellow, while the green tone signifies a low level of correlation. Right-pointing arrows on the graph indicate a positive correlation (in phase)_ 

16 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

_between green bonds and oil shocks, while left-pointing arrows suggest a negative correlation (out of phase). Arrows pointing right-up indicate that oil shocks are leading, while arrows pointing left-down suggest that oil shocks are lagging. Conversely, arrows pointing left-up (or right-down) imply that green bonds are leading (lagging) in relation to oil shocks._ (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 

**Fig. 5.** ( _continued_ ). 

17 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

**Fig. 6.** Multiple Wavelet Coherence. _**Notes to**_ Fig. 6 _**:**_ The black-bordered patches highlight a region of high significance at a 5 % level, determined through Monte-Carlo simulation. Wavelet power is represented by a color bar scale, with green indicating low coherence power and shades transitioning to yellow representing higher power levels. This scale reflects varying levels of correlation, specifically the phase difference, between oil price shocks and different green bond indexes. The Y-axis represents frequencies ranging from one day (scale 1) to approximately 256 days (scale 256), while the X-axis captures the timeline from the start to the end of the sample period. The color scheme assigns a higher correlation to yellow and a lower level of correlation to green. Right-pointing arrows indicate a positive correlation (in phase) between green bonds and oil shocks, while left-pointing arrows suggest a negative correlation (out of phase). Arrows pointing right-up indicate oil shocks leading, whereas left-down arrows suggest oil shocks lagging. Conversely, left-up arrows (or right-down arrows) imply green bonds leading (lagging) in relation to oil shocks. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 

days). Additionally, a portfolio encompassing all GB markets showed the most substantial reduction in diversification opportunities between 2012 and 2017, specifically for short-to-mid frequency ranges. Such results emphasize the dynamic risks faced by portfolio managers and underscore the need for investors to regularly reassess and restructure their portfolio structures. 

## **5. Conclusion** 

The increasing global focus on sustainable finance has brought green bonds to the forefront as a highly sought-after financial tool for supporting environmentally friendly and sustainable initiatives. This surge of interest comes not just from ESG-focused investors but also traditional fixed-income investors who prioritize optimal returns for a given level of risk. The unprecedented growth in the global GB market in recent years has arisen from the growing number of issuers and investor interest in sustainable investments. Nevertheless, geopolitical and economic challenges have impacted global supply chains and the economic recovery, so GB markets have faced headwinds in 2022 like other financial markets. While the impact of these challenges varies across different markets, the global economy’s reliance on fossil fuels, particularly crude oil, remains a dominant consideration for financial markets. As such, investigating the potential risks associated with investing in the relatively new GB market has become a key area of study for scholars. In this study, we therefore investigated the impact of oil-induced shocks (Ready, 2018) on GB investments for a set of developed countries, namely Denmark, Europe, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK, and the US. 

The findings reveal that there is limited correlation across high-frequency scales for all markets, although Norway and Sweden also exhibit strong integration across low frequencies, with this relationship becoming even more intense for Norway after 2013. As a result, these markets offer a lower degree of risk reduction when combined with oil in a portfolio across different scales. The effectiveness of GBs as a hedge against crude oil varies across investment periods, and it becomes stronger during turbulent periods. Such tumultuous scenarios prompt investors to review and re-evaluate portfolio risk strategies, resulting in increased returns correlation. Furthermore, a negative relationship was observed between oil and GB returns for Norway and Sweden, while the other markets showed a positive relationship across different frequencies. Our analysis confirms that risk shocks have a more pronounced impact on the GB markets of Norway and Sweden compared to the other countries across lower frequencies, indicating their heightened susceptibility to such shocks and implying a greater potential for market volatility and disruptions in these markets. Finally, the wavelet VaR analysis revealed that the GB markets of the US, Japan, the UK, and Switzerland experienced low risk when combined with oil and preceding shocks in a portfolio for short periods and specific timeframes, mainly across higher frequencies. 

Investors and asset managers in Norway and Sweden should especially take note of the inverse relationship between GBs and oil returns. Indeed, our results suggest that holding GBs can provide some protection against oil-related risks. In addition, such a relationship may also incentivize green financing when oil prices are high (Marín-Rodríguez et al., 2023). Nevertheless, the positive impact of oil returns on other markets, with the exceptions of Norway and Sweden, provides compelling evidence that international oil prices, like other conventional assets, affect GBs in developed countries. 

The findings indicate that GBs can serve as a diversifying asset, providing hedging opportunities with oil futures for short-to-midterm investments. However, our results highlight an increasing returns comovement between GBs and international oil markets during financially turbulent periods. Investors can tap portfolio diversification and risk reduction benefits between green bonds and oil at higher frequencies or during periods of oil market stability across most markets. Policymakers therefore need to be aware of the 

18 

_North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

_M.U. Rehman et al._ 

**Fig. 6.** ( _continued_ ). 

vulnerability of GB markets to international oil prices, just like with traditional financial markets during crisis periods, particularly in the long-run. We therefore suggest the following policy recommendations. A possible future extension to our work could be the inclusion of other dimensions of analysis of green bond issues for example, green bond issuance and oil markets, types of green bonds (sovereign, corporate) vs oil market returns, industry sectors (financial, non-financial) of green bonds vs oil markets and the use of 

19 

_North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

_M.U. Rehman et al._ 

**Fig. 6.** ( _continued_ ). 

20 

_North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

_M.U. Rehman et al._ 

**Fig. 7.** Wavelet VaR Analysis. _**Notes to**_ Fig. 7 _**:**_ Fig. 3. Present difference between the wavelet Value-at-Risk (VAR) of the developed GB markets and the squared wavelet Value-at-Risk (VARs) after including oil returns and preceding shocks with the developed GBs. Time period is scaled on horizontal axis while the frequency is listed on vertical axis. The frequency is presented in number of days. Light green colour (high values) implies greater diversification benefits whereas dark green color (low values) present low diversification benefits. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) 

21 

_North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

_M.U. Rehman et al._ 

**==> picture [64 x 8] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Fig. 7.  ( continued ).<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


proceeds of green bonds (energy, etc.) vs oil markets. Based on the comment on anonymous review, we also suggest to include nongreen bonds as a comparative measure together with green bonds. 

## **CRediT authorship contribution statement** 

**Mobeen Ur Rehman:** Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal analysis, Methodology, Software. **Neeraj Nautiyal:** Formal analysis, Writing – original draft. **Rami Zeitun:** Investigation, Project administration, Validation, Writing – review & editing. **Xuan Vinh Vo:** Conceptualization, Resources, Supervision. **Wafa Ghardallou:** Supervision, Writing – review & editing. 

## **Declaration of competing interest** 

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. 

## **Data availability** 

Data will be made available on request. 

## **Acknowledgements** 

This research is partly funded by the University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. 

22 

_North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

## **Appendix** 

|**Types of Wavelet method**|**Results**|
|---|---|
|Cross wavelet|Green bond markets and oil returns exhibit limited interdependence, except during the crisis period (such as GFC&|
||COVID-19) which is relatively more pronounced for Norway and least for Switzerland.|
|Wavelet coherence|Wavelet coherence indicates weak links between green bonds and global oil markets; however, it rises at lower<br>frequencies post-GFC and during COVID-19. In particular, Norway markets exhibit signifcant correlations in|
||2013–2016 and 2020–21 at the highest scale.|
|Wavelet coherence (In-and out-of-phase|Positive relationships exist for the US, Japan, Europe, Denmark, and Switzerland over periods of 64 to 514 days,|
|comovements)|particularly prominent during the 2020–21 pandemic. In contrast, Norway and Sweden exhibit negative behavior,|
|Partial wavelet coherence (PWC)|more pronounced during 2013–2021 with 64–256 day periods.<br>These results are country-specifc for enhanced clarity.<br>**US:**No signifcant correlation exists between green bond returns and oil.|
||**Euro and UK:**Correlation strengthens after accounting for risk shocks but remains largely insensitive to supply and|
||demand shocks.|
||**Japan:**Inconsistent correlation, particularly during the GFC (2008–09), when controlling for the impact of supply|
||shocks and risk shocks.|
||**Norway& Sweden:**Strong correlation than other GB markets after considering risk shocks, particularly for the|
||Norwegian green bond market compared to Sweden. However, no correlation after accounting for supply shocks.<br>**New Zealand, Denmark, and Switzerland-**Dynamics are more signifcant when considering risk shocks than|
||demand and supply shocks.|
|Multiple Wavelet Coherence|**US**: Strong correlation occurs across the medium-frequency cycle, especially during the GFC, ESDC, and pandemic,|
||considering both supply and risk shocks. However, it diminishes with lower- frequency cycles.|
||**Euro and UK:**Weaker correlation compared to the US market across all scales.|
||**Japan:**Stronger correlation with the effect of all oil shocks in mid-to-high frequency compared to the UK and Europe,|
||which are even more pronounced for risk shock<br>**Sweden:**Consistent, signifcant relationship with oil shocks in mid-to-long cycles, especially intense during|
||2011–2015 for supply shocks and 2012–2015 for risk and demand shocks at a medium scale (64–128 days).|
||**Norway:**Witnesses the strongest impact with all oil shocks in the sample, particularly between 2013 and 2016,|
||intensifying over long time horizons. Short-to-mid-term horizons also exhibit high sensitivity to all shocks, with a|
||more pronounced effect post-2013.<br>**New Zealand:**Signifcant correlation with risk shocks, notably between 2011 and 2018 for all shocks, with the period|
||from 2013 to 2016 being even more prominent.|
||**Denmark:**Demand shocks have a stronger impact at medium horizons compared to supply and risk shocks,|
||particularly evident at the longest horizons (514–1024 days).<br>**Switzerland:**Signifcant correlation across all frequencies, especially notable at the study’s beginning (2011) and|
||end (2017–21) with 64–512 day cycles. However, less pronounced results in low-frequency periods from 2013 to|
||2018.|
|Wavelet VaR|Oil and green bonds offer diversifcation benefts for all markets except Norway and Sweden. However, limited gains|
||were observed between 2012 and 2017, particularly for short-to-mid frequencies. Sweden and Norway provide the<br>least diversifcation benefts, especially post-2013, across all frequencies.|



## **References** 

Aguiar-Conraria, L., Azevedo, N., & Soares, M. J. (2008). Using wavelets to decompose the time–frequency effects of monetary policy. _Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 387_ (12), 2863–2878. Aguiar-Conraria, L., & Soares, M. J. (2014). The continuous wavelet transform: Moving beyond uni-and bivariate analysis. _Journal of Economic Surveys, 28_ (2), 344–375. Apergis, N., & Payne, J. E. (2015). Renewable energy, output, carbon dioxide emissions, and oil prices: Evidence from South America. _Energy Sources, Part B: Economics, Planning, and Policy, 10_ (3), 281–287. Asl, M. G., Canarella, G., & Miller, S. M. (2021). Dynamic asymmetric optimal portfolio allocation between energy stocks and energy commodities: Evidence from clean energy and oil and gas companies. _Resources Policy, 71_ , Article 101982. Azhgaliyeva, D., Kapsalyamova, Z., & Mishra, R. (2022). Oil price shocks and GBs: An empirical evidence. _Energy Economics_ , Article 106108. 

Basher, S. A., Haug, A. A., & Sadorsky, P. (2018). The impact of oil-market shocks on stock returns in major oil-exporting countries. _Journal of International Money and Finance, 86_ , 264–280. Baumeister, C., & Kilian, L. (2015). Forecasting the real price of oil in a changing world: A forecast combination approach. _Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 33_ (3), 338–351. Bein, M. A., & Mehmet, A. G. A. (2016). International crude oil price and stock markets: Evidence from the Nordic and other european oil importing and oil exporting countries. _Romanian Journal of Economic Forecasting, 19_ (4), 115. Berger, T., & Czudaj, R. L. (2020). Commodity futures and a wavelet-based risk assessment. _Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 554_ , Article 124339. Bergholt, D., Larsen, V. H., & Seneca, M. (2019). Business cycles in an oil economy. _Journal of International Money and Finance, 96_ , 283–303. Bloomberg Annual report (2021), Face the Data. Change the World. COUNCIL, F. S. (2020). Financial stability report. Bogdanov, D., Ram, M., Aghahosseini, A., Gulagi, A., Oyewo, A. S., Child, M., & Breyer, C. (2021). Low-cost renewable electricity as the key driver of the global energy transition towards sustainability. _Energy, 227_ , Article 120467. Broadstock, D. C., & Cheng, L. T. W. (2019). Time-varying relation between black and GB price benchmarks: Macroeconomic determinants for the first decade. _Finance Research Letters, 29_ , 17–22. Chernyshova, M. V. (2021). ESG and responsible institutional investment. _Scientific works of the Free Economic Society of Russia, 229_ (3), 98–120. Clements, A., Shield, C., & Thiele, S. (2019). Which oil shocks really matter in equity markets? _Energy Economics, 81_ , 134–141. Climate Bonds Initiative. (2022). Green Infrastructure Investment Opportunities: Thailand 2021 Report. Demirer, R., Ferrer, R., & Shahzad, S. J. H. (2020). Oil price shocks, global financial markets and their connectedness. _Energy Economics, 88_ , Article 104771. Dutta, A. (2017). Oil price uncertainty and clean energy stock returns: New evidence from crude oil volatility index. _Journal of Cleaner Production, 164_ , 1157–1166. 

23 

_M.U. Rehman et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                   North American Journal of Economics and Finance 72 (2024) 102122_ 

Fatica, S., Panzica, R., & Rancan, M. (2021). The pricing of green bonds: Are financial institutions special? _Journal of Financial Stability, 54_ , Article 100873. Ferrer, R., Shahzad, S. J. H., & Soriano, P. (2021). Are green bonds a different asset class? Evidence from time-frequency connectedness analysis. _Journal of Cleaner Production, 292_ , Article 125988. Fotak, V., Gao, X., & Megginson, W. L. (2017). _A financial force to be reckoned with? An overview of sovereign wealth funds_ (pp. 16–62). Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. Gevorkyan, A. (2017). Renewable versus nonrenewable resources: An analysis of volatility in futures prices. _Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics, 61_ (1), 19–35. Gormus, N. A., Soytas, U., & Diltz, J. D. (2014). Volatility transmission between energy-related asset classes. _Global Finance Journal, 25_ (3), 246–259. Gullaksen, J. F., & Auran, I. K. (2017). _Time-varying Risk Factor Models for Renewable Stocks_ (Master’s thesis, NTNU). 

Gyura, G. (2020). Green bonds and green bond funds: The quest for the real impact. _The Journal of Alternative Investments, 23_ (1), 71–79. Hachenberg, B., & Schiereck, D. (2018). Are green bonds priced differently from conventional bonds? _Journal of Asset Management, 19_ (6), 371–383. Hamledar, M., Saeidi, R., & Aslani, A. (2019). Analysis of the robustness of Norway’s economy and energy supply/demand fluctuations. In _Economic Dynamics of Global Energy Geopolitics_ (pp. 215–241). IGI Global. 

Han, Y., & Li, P. (2020). Do Green Bonds Add Value in Multi-Asset Portfolios: Evidence from China. 

Henriques, I., & Sadorsky, P. (2008). Oil prices and the stock prices of alternative energy companies. _Energy Economics, 30_ (3), 998–1010. Hkiri, B., Hammoudeh, S., Aloui, C., & Shahbaz, M. (2018). The interconnections between US financial CDS spreads and control variables: New evidence using partial and multivariate wavelet coherences. _International Review of Economics & Finance, 57_ , 237–257. Hudgins, L., Friehe, C. A., & Mayer, M. E. (1993). Wavelet transforms and atmopsheric turbulence. _Physical Review Letters, 71_ (20), 3279. 

Jiang, C., Wu, Y. F., Li, X. L., & Li, X. (2020). Time-frequency connectedness between coal market prices, new energy stock prices and CO2 emissions trading prices in China. _Sustainability, 12_ (7), 2823. Jin, J., Han, L., Wu, L., & Zeng, H. (2020). The hedging effect of green bonds on carbon market risk. _International Review of Financial Analysis, 71_ , Article 101509. Kanamura, T. (2020). Are green bonds environmentally friendly and good performing assets? _Energy Economics, 88_ , Article 104767. 

Kapustkina, A. (2021). Development of approaches to technical inspection of is “green” buildings. In _E3S Web of Conferences, 258_ p. 09083). EDP Sciences. Kilian, L. (2009). Not all oil price shocks are alike: Disentangling demand and supply shocks in the crude oil market. _American Economic Review, 99_ (3), 1053–1069. Kilian, L., & Park, C. (2009). The impact of oil price shocks on the US stock market. _International Economic Review, 50_ (4), 1267–1287. 

Krueger, P., Sautner, Z., & Starks, L. T. (2020). The importance of climate risks for institutional investors. _The Review of Financial Studies, 33_ (3), 1067–1111. Kumar, S., Managi, S., & Matsuda, A. (2012). Stock prices of clean energy firms, oil and carbon markets: A vector autoregressive analysis. _Energy Economics, 34_ (1), 215–226. Lee, C. C., Lee, C. C., & Li, Y. Y. (2021). Oil price shocks, geopolitical risks, and GB market dynamics. _The North American Journal of Economics and Finance, 55_ , Article 101309. 

Lee, C. C., Tang, H., & Li, D. (2022). The roles of oil shocks and geopolitical uncertainties on China’s GB returns. _Economic Analysis and Policy, 74_ , 494–505. Managi, S., & Okimoto, T. (2013). Does the price of oil interact with clean energy prices in the stock market? _Japan and the World Economy, 27_ , 1–9. Mensi, W., Rehman, M. U., & Vo, X. V. (2022). Impacts of COVID-19 outbreak, macroeconomic and financial stress factors on price spillovers among green bond. _International Review of Financial Analysis, 81_ , Article 102125. Naeem, M. A., Rehman, M. U., Ahmad, N., Vo, X. V., & Karim, S. (2023). Good vs bad returns spillover in regional energy markets. _International Journal of Green Energy_ , 1–16. Naeem, M. A., Adekoya, O. B., & Oliyide, J. A. (2021). Asymmetric spillovers between GBs and commodities. _Journal of Cleaner Production, 314_ , Article 128100. Narayan, P. K. (2020). Oil price news and COVID-19—Is there any connection? _Energy Research Letters, 1_ (1). Nazlioglu, S., Soytas, U., & Gupta, R. (2015). Oil prices and financial stress: A volatility spillover analysis. _Energy Policy, 82_ , 278–288. Nguyen, T. T. H., Naeem, M. A., Balli, F., Balli, H. O., & Vo, X. V. (2021). Time-frequency comovement among green bonds, stocks, commodities, clean energy, and conventional bonds. _Finance Research Letters, 40_ , Article 101739. Pawłowski, M. (2018). Diversification of the global green bond market. _European Journal of Service Management, 27_ (3/2), 331–337. Ready, R. C. (2018). Oil prices and the stock market. _Review of Finance, 22_ (1), 155–176. 

Reboredo, J. C., & Ugolini, A. (2018). The impact of energy prices on clean energy stock prices. a multivariate quantile dependence approach. _Energy Economics, 76_ , 136–152. Reboredo, J. C., & Ugolini, A. (2020). Price connectedness between green bond and financial markets. _Economic Modelling, 88_ , 25–38. 

Rehman, M. U., Nautiyal, N., Vo, X. V., Ghardallou, W., & Kang, S. H. (2023). Is the impact of oil shocks more pronounced during extreme market conditions? _Resources Policy, 85_ , Article 103899. Rehman, M. U., Raheem, I. D., Zeitun, R., Vo, X. V., & Ahmad, N. (2023). Do oil shocks affect the green bond market? _Energy Economics, 117_ , Article 106429. Rehman, M. U., Zeitun, R., Vo, X. V., Ahmad, N., & Al-Faryan, M. A. S. (2023). Green bonds’ connectedness with hedging and conditional diversification performance. _Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 86_ , Article 101802. 

Rua, A., & Nunes, L. C. (2009). International comovement of stock market returns: A wavelet analysis. _Journal of Empirical Finance, 16_ (4), 632–639. Sachs, J. D. (2014). Climate change and intergenerational well-being. _The Oxford handbook of the macroeconomics of global warming_ , 248–259. Sadorsky, P. (2012). Correlations and volatility spillovers between oil prices and the stock prices of clean energy and technology companies. _Energy Economics, 34_ , 248–255. 

Sangiorgi, I., & Schopohl, L. (2021). Why do institutional investors buy green bonds: Evidence from a survey of European asset managers. _International Review of Financial Analysis, 75_ , Article 101738. Smyth, R., & Narayan, P. K. (2018). What do we know about oil prices and stock returns? _International Review of Financial Analysis, 57_ , 148–156. Sreelakshmi, P., & Greeshma, R. J. (2023). Green bonds: A propitious financial instrument of climate finance. _Vision_ , 09722629221138679. Tainaka, K., Hamada, M., Mizumoto, S., & Miyata, S. (2021). The challenges of standardising green bonds in Japan. _International Financial Law Review_ . Tolliver, C., Keeley, A. R., & Managi, S. (2020). Drivers of green bond market growth: The importance of nationally determined contributions to the Paris agreement and implications for sustainability. _Journal of Cleaner Production, 244_ , Article 118643. 

Torrence, C., & Compo, G. P. (1998). A practical guide to wavelet analysis. _Bulletin of the American Meteorological society, 79_ (1), 61–78. Torvanger, A., Maltais, A., & Marginean, I. (2021). Green bonds in Sweden and Norway: What are the success factors? _Journal of Cleaner Production, 324_ , Article 129177. 

World Bank. (2022). _The World Bank annual report 2022_ . The World Bank. Yaya, O. S., Ogbonna, A. E., & Vo, X. V. (2022). Oil shocks and volatility of green investments: GARCH-MIDAS analyses. _Resources Policy, 78_ , Article 102789. Yi, X., Bai, C., Lyu, S., & Dai, L. (2021). The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on China’s green bond market. _Finance Research Letters, 42_ , Article 101948. 

24 

