Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54 

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 

## Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ime 

## Incorporating hierarchical credibility theory into modelling of multi-country mortality rates 

## Cary Chi-Liang Tsai[∗] , Adelaide Di Wu 

_Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada_ 

|a r t i c l e<br>i n f o|a b s t r a c t|
|---|---|
|_Article history:_|A hierarchical credibility model is a generalization of the Bühlmann credibility model and the|
|Received May 2019|Bühlmann–Straub credibility model with a tree structure of four or more levels. This paper aims to|
|Received in revised form December 2019<br>Accepted 1 January 2020<br>Available online 9 January 2020|incorporate hierarchical credibility theory, which is used in property and casualty insurance, to model<br>multi-country mortality rates. The forecasting performances of the three/four/five-level hierarchical<br>credibility models are compared with those of the classical Lee–Carter model and its three extensions|
|_Keywords:_|for multiple populations (the joint-_k_, the co-integrated, and the augmented common factor Lee–Carter|
|Hierarchical credibility theory|models). Numerical illustrations based on mortality data from the Human Mortality Database for both|
|Bühlmann credibility theory|genders of the US, the UK and Japan with a series of fitting year spans and three forecasting periods|
|Lee–Carter model|show that the hierarchical credibility approach contributes to more accurate forecasts measured by|
|Multi-population mortality model<br>Annual mortality decrement|the AMAPE (average of mean absolute percentage errors). Finally, a stochastic version of the proposed<br>hierarchical credibility mortality model is also proposed, which can be used to construct predictive|
||intervals on the projected mortality rates and to conduct stochastic simulations for applications.|
||©2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.|



## **1. Introduction** 

Mortality is one of the key factors in determining the premiums and reserves of life insurance and annuity products and pricing mortality-linked securities, (e.g., _q_ -forwards, longevity bonds, survivor swaps, annuity futures, mortality options, and survivor caps). Over recent decades, mortality rates have displayed a dramatic improvement. Since life annuity contracts and pension plans often last for decades, with a gradual increase in life expectancy of most developed countries, annuity providers, retirement programmes and pension/long-term care systems need effective mortality models accurately capturing the downward mortality trend to reduce the risk of paying more survival benefits than expected to retirees and annuitants, which is called longevity risk. An effective multi-population mortality model can help construct an accurate mortality index for better pricing of mortality-indexed securities and derivatives to hedge longevity risk for annuity providers. When modelling multi-population mortality rates, although traditional mortality models can project mortality rates separately for each population, these models do not consider a correlation among populations. The mortality rates between females and males in a country are highly correlated because they are exposed to the common conditions such as public health, education systems, medical services, and living 

∗ Corresponding author. _E-mail addresses:_ cltsai@sfu.ca (C.C.-L. Tsai), dwa51@sfu.ca (A.D. Wu). 

environments. The mortality rates among developed countries or provinces/states in a country also have a different degree of correlation due to similar exposures. 

Projecting mortality rates and modelling their randomness have garnered much attention in the past decades. The Lee and Carter (1992) model is the most widely cited model in mortality prediction and applications. There are some extensions to the Lee–Carter model, which incorporate the dependence between the mortality rates for multiple populations. Carter and Lee (1992) introduced the joint- _k_ Lee–Carter model, assuming that the mortality rates for two populations are jointly driven by a common time-varying index. Li and Lee (2005) proposed the augmented common factor Lee–Carter model involving common factors and population-specific ones. Li and Hardy (2011) showed the existence of co-integration in the time trends of mortality rates for two populations, and modelled the time trends of mortality rates by a linear relationship, called the co-integrated Lee–Carter model. 

Also, there are articles, not based on the Lee–Carter model, studying the correlation of multi-population mortality rates. For example, Cairns et al. (2011) introduced a new framework for modelling the joint development over time of mortality rates in a pair of related populations with the primary aim of producing consistent mortality forecasts for two populations. Wang et al. (2015) used time-varying copula models to capture the mortality dependence structure across countries, examining both symmetric and asymmetric dependence structures. Chen et al. (2015) 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.insmatheco.2020.01.001 0167-6687/© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

38 

**==> picture [185 x 93] intentionally omitted <==**

**Fig. 1.** A five-level hierarchical tree structure for a business line. 

first filtered the mortality dynamics of each population using an ARMA-GARCH process with heavy-tailed innovations, and then modelled the residual risk using a one-factor copula model that is widely applicable to high dimension data and very flexible in terms of model specification. Lin et al. (2015) employed a copula method to capture the inter-age mortality dependence structure and AR-GARCH models to capture the marginal dynamics of mortality rates.Wang and Li (2016) proposed a DCCGARCH approach to modelling the evolution of the aggregate mortality rates for five developed countries jointly, and used the estimated model to price a catastrophic mortality bond. Li et al. (2015) proposed a systematic process for constructing a two-population mortality model and developed two-population generalizations for each of the seven single-population models studied in Cairns et al. (2009). Li et al. (2017) introduced a new concept called semi-coherence to produce semi-coherent mortality forecasts using a vector threshold autoregression. Enchev et al. (2016) reviewed a number of multi-population mortality models and developed forecasting models that produce non-diverging and joint mortality rate scenarios. 

Credibility theory is widely applied in property and casualty insurance, where the credibility estimate for the next year of a policyholder is a weighted average of the sample mean of the past claim data for the policyholder and the mean of the collective data. The past claim data (severities or frequencies) for all policyholders in a group can be treated as a tree structure of three levels (levels zero, one and two). Taking some business line as an example, level zero is the individual claim data in the past years for each policyholder, and level one represents all policyholders in a specific group, which is shown within the dashed box of Fig. 1. The sample mean for policyholder (PH) _p_ under the specific group _g_ , _Y p,_ •, is calculated based on the policyholder’s past claim severities or frequencies _Yp, t_ at level zero, _t_ = 1 _, . . . , n_ , which are assumed independent and identically distributed given a risk parameter for policyholder _p_ , and the true mean of claim severity or frequency can be estimated from _Y_ • _,_ •, the sample mean of all policyholders’ past claim severities or frequencies (or the average of _Y p,_ • over all policyholders at level one) in group _g_ . 

Jewell (1975) proposed a hierarchical model to make the individual risk parameters exchangeable, and obtained a modified credibility formula with the collateral data in an intuitively satisfying manner. Sundt (1980) extended the hierarchical credibility regression model with random parameters on two levels, proposed by Sundt (1979), to _n_ levels. Norberg (1986) proposed 

a random coefficient regression model with multi-stage nested classification, obtained linear Bayes estimators for random effects at all stages, and gave estimators of the structural parameters. Bühlmann and Gisler (2005) incorporated the idea of hierarchical structure to the credibility theory to achieve the hierarchical credibility model. Hierarchical credibility is similar to the classical credibility. Actually, it is a generalization of the classical credibility with a tree structure of more levels. Using the same example for illustration, hierarchical credibility can be used to model claim severities/frequencies in a tree structure of five levels. As the tree structure shown in Fig. 1, level two stands for groups with a number of policyholders for each group, and level three represents regions with a number of groups for each region, operating a specific business line. The non-parametric hierarchical credibility estimate follows a procedure where the sample means are calculated in a hierarchical order from bottom to top: firstly, the sample mean of the past claim severities/frequencies at level zero for policyholder _p_ of group _g_ in region _r_ is calculated to get the policyholder sample mean _Y r, g, p,_ • for all policyholders at level one; secondly, the average of the policyholder sample means _Y r, g, p,_ • over all policyholders of group _g_ in region _r_ is computed to get the group sample mean _Y r, g,_ • _,_ • (an estimate of the true mean of claim severities/frequencies for group _g_ in region _r_ ) for all groups at level two; thirdly, the average of the group sample means _Y r, g,_ • _,_ • over all groups in region _r_ is calculated to obtain the region sample mean _Y r,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (an estimate of the true mean of claim severities/frequencies for region _r_ ) for all regions at level three; and finally, the average of the region sample means _Y r,_ • _,_ • _,_ • over all regions is computed to achieve the business line sample mean _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (an estimate of the true mean of claim severities/frequencies for the business line) at level four. Four weights determined by Bühlmann and Gisler (2005), summing to one, are assigned to the policyholder sample mean _Y r, g, p,_ •, the group sample mean _Y r, g,_ • _,_ •, the region sample mean _Y r,_ • _,_ • _,_ •, and the business line sample mean _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ •, respectively. The nonparametric hierarchical credibility estimate for region _r_ , group _g_ , policyholder _p_ and the next year is then obtained by a weighted average of the four sample means. That is, the non-parametric hierarchical credibility estimate is determined by the four sample means and their corresponding weights, and thus each of the past claim data for all policyholders, groups and regions has a different degree of contribution to the value of the hierarchical credibility estimate. 

Traditional mortality models for a single population (a gender of some country) group mortality data into a hierarchical structure of three levels (population, age and year). Tsai and Lin (2017a) incorporated Bühlmann credibility theory into the Lee– Carter model, the CBD model (proposed by Cairns et al. (2006) and designed to model mortality rates for higher ages), and the Tsai and Yang (2015) model to significantly improve their mortality forecasting performances. Tsai and Lin (2017b) proposed a non-parametric Bühlmann credibility approach to modelling mortality rates for a single population, and showed that the approach overall outperforms the Lee–Carter model in forecasting performance using the selected mortality data sets. Tsai and Zhang (2019) gave a multi-dimensional Bühlmann credibility approach, represented in matrix form, to forecasting multipopulation mortality rates, and demonstrated with empirical illustrations that the proposed multi-dimensional Bühlmann credibility approach overall outperforms the CBD model, the classical Lee–Carter model, and the joint- _k_ , the co-integrated, and the augmented common factor Lee–Carter models for multiple populations in mortality forecast. Inspired by the ideas of the joint- _k_ , the co-integrated, the common factor, and the augmented common factor Lee–Carter models, Tsai and Wu (2020) proposed four corresponding Bühlmann credibility-based mortality models 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

39 

apply the hierarchical credibility approach to modelling _Yc, g, x, t_ = ln( _mc, g, x, t_ )−ln( _mc, g, x, t_ −1), the yearly decrement of the logarithm of central death rate[1] over [ _t_ − 1 _, t_ ] for age _x_ , gender _g_ and country _c_ , in order to eliminate the downward trend (see Fig. 4). 

**Fig. 2.** A five-level hierarchical tree structure for multi-country populations. 

for multiple populations, and showed with numerical illustrations that the Bühlmann credibility-based models contribute to more accurate forecasts than the corresponding Lee–Carter-based models. We notice that the multi-country mortality data have a hierarchical structure. Therefore, this paper aims at incorporating hierarchical credibility theory into modelling of multi-country mortality rates by grouping mortality data for both genders of three well-developed countries into four levels (country, gender, age, and year) or five levels (multi-country, country, gender, age, and year). 

The remainder of this paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 introduces the four-level and five-level hierarchical credibility approaches to modelling multi-population mortality rates and applies them to projecting mortality rates for six populations (both genders of the US, the UK and Japan). Section 3 compares the forecasting performances of the proposed three/four/fivelevel hierarchical mortality models and the Lee–Carter model and its three variations (the joint- _k_ , the co-integrated, and the augmented common factor models; see Appendix A) for multiple populations. We also give a stochastic version of the proposed hierarchical credibility mortality model in Section 4, which can be used to construct predictive intervals on the projected mortality rates and to conduct stochastic simulations for applications. Section 5 concludes this paper. 

## **2. Hierarchical Bühlmann credibility mortality model** 

This section incorporates the hierarchical credibility theory from Bühlmann and Gisler (2005) into modelling of multi-country mortality rates, called hierarchical credibility mortality model, which is a generalization of the non-parametric Bühlmann credibility mortality model for a single population proposed by Tsai and Lin (2017b). 

Fig. 2 structures mortality data for multiple countries in a fivelevel (levels 0−4) hierarchical tree with the top level (level 4) being the multi-country, which consists of mortality data from _C_ countries. Each country is broken down into _G_ genders ( _G_ = 2). Within each gender, there are consecutive ages _xL, . . . , xU_ . Finally, each age has yearly data from year _tL_ to year _tU_ , which is the bottom level (level 0). Denote _mc, g, x, t_ the central death rate for country _c_ , gender _g_ , age _x_ and year _t_ . The Lee–Carter model and its three variations for multiple populations use ln( _mc, g, x, t_ ) to model mortality rates. Fig. 3 shows that the historical mortality data ln( _mc, g, x, t_ )s from the Human Mortality Database for the US, the UK and Japan display a downward trend over year _t_ = 1950 _, . . . ,_ 2010 for _x_ = 25 _,_ 50 _,_ 75. As with the Bühlmann credibility mortality model proposed by Tsai and Lin (2017a,b), we 

Let [ _T_ 1 _, T_ 2] be the study period where mortality rates are available for all values of _c_ and _g_ . Assume that we stand at the end of year _tU_ and would like to fit the models with mortality data in an age-year window [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tL, tU_ ], project mortality rates for the rectangle [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2], and evaluate the forecast performances of the underlying mortality models by comparing the projected mortality rates with the observed ones in [ _xL, xU_ ]× [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2]. Since we will use indices _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ to simplify notations, given mortality data ln( _mc, g, x, t_ )s in the age-year window [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tL, tU_ ] for a population of country _c_ and gender _g_ , the age-year window [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tL, tU_ ] for ln( _mc, g, x, t_ ) corresponds to [1 _, X_ ] × [1 _, T_ ] for _Yc, g, x, t_ ; that △ is, _Yc, g, x, t_ = ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ ) − ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ −1) for _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , where _X_ = _xU_ − _xL_ + 1 and _T_ = _tU_ − _tL_ . Our goal aims to apply a hierarchical credibility approach to the yearly decrement (mortality improvement) _Yc, g, x, t_ s to obtain the hierarchical credibility estimates _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _t_ for _t_ = 1 _, . . . , τ_ . Then the hierarchical credibility estimate for country _c_ , gender _g_ , age _xL_ + _x_ − 1, and year _tU_ + _τ_ is 

**==> picture [252 x 42] intentionally omitted <==**

## _2.1. Assumptions and notations_ 

This subsection first gives the assumptions and then the notations of conditional means, mean, conditional variances and variances for a five-level hierarchical tree based on Chapter 6 of Bühlmann and Gisler (2005). The assumptions of risk parameters _Θc, g, x_ , _Φc, g_ and _Ψc_ for levels 0–3 of a hierarchical tree are given from top to bottom as follows: 

- Level 3: the country risk parameters, _Ψc_ , _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ , at level 3 are independent and identically distributed; 

- Level 2: given _Ψc_ at level 3 for fixed country _c_ , the gender risk parameters, _Φc, g_ , _g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ , at level 2 are independent and identically distributed; 

- Level 1: given _Φc, g_ at level 2 for fixed country _c_ and gender _g_ , the age risk parameters, _Θc, g, x_ , _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ , at level 1 are independent and identically distributed; and 

- Level 0: given _Θc, g, x_ at level 1 for fixed country _c_ , gender _g_ and age _x_ , _Yc, g, x, t_ , _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , at level 0 are independent and identically distributed. 

Because the risk parameters in each level are unknown, and thus uncertain, it is a popular way to use Bayesian statistics to treat any risk parameters as random variables, and then the credibility models/approaches can apply. 

First, we denote the mean for level 4 and the conditional means for levels 1–3 below: 

   - 

   - • Level 4: _µ_ 4 = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ ], the unconditional expectation of _Yc, g, x, t_ for all years _t_ , ages _x_ , genders _g_ , and countries _c_ at levels 0–3 (the common mean is one of the key assumptions for the classical Bühlmann credibility model); 

- 1 The predicted mortality rate under the Lee–Carter model is a linear function, 

- and the slope of the linear function is the decrement per year in the logarithm of central death rate; see (A.1). 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

40 

**Fig. 3.** ln( _mc, g, x, t_ ) against _t_ . 

**Fig. 4.** _Yc, g, x, t_ = ln( _mc, g, x, t_ ) − ln( _mc, g, x, t_ −1) against _t_ . 

- 

- • Level 3: _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ ) = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Ψc_ ], the conditional expectation of _Yc, g, x, t_ for all years _t_ , ages _x_ , and genders _g_ at levels 0– 2 under country _c_ , given the country risk parameter _Ψc_ at level 3; 

- 

- • Level 2: _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ ) = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Φc, g_ ], the conditional expectation of _Yc, g, x, t_ at for all years _t_ and ages _x_ at levels 0–1 under gender _g_ and country _c_ , given the gender risk parameter _Φc, g_ at level 2; and 

- 

- • Level 1: _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) = _E_ ( _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ ), the conditional expectation of _Yc, g, x, t_ for all years _t_ at level 0 under age _x_ , 

gender _g_ and country _c_ , given the age risk parameter _Θc, g, x_ at level 1. 

By the law of total expectation, we can show that 

- _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ ) = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Φc, g_ ] = _E_ [ _E_ ( _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ )| _Φc, g_ ] = _E_ [ _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ )| _Φc, g_ ], 

- _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ ) = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Ψc_ ] = _E_ { _E_ [ _E_ ( _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ )| _Φc, g_ ]| _Ψc_ } = _E_ [ _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )| _Ψc_ ], and 

- _µ_ 4 = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ ] = _E_ { _E_ { _E_ [ _E_ ( _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ )| _Φc, g_ ]| _Ψc_ }} = _E_ [ _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ )]. 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

41 

Next, we denote the following conditional variances for levels 1–3: 

- 

- • Level 3: _σ_ 3[2][(] _[Ψ][c]_[)] = _Var_ [ _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )| _Ψc_ ] = _E_ {[ _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ ) − _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ )][2] | _Ψc_ }, the conditional variance of _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ ) at level 2, given the country risk parameter _Ψc_ at level 3; 

- 

- • Level 2: _σ_ 2[2][(] _[Φ][c][,][ g]_[)] = _Var_ [ _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ )| _Φc, g_ ] = _E_ {[ _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) − _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )][2] | _Φc, g_ }, the conditional variance of _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) at level 1, given the gender risk parameter _Φc, g_ at level 2; and 

- Level 1: _σ_ 1 _w_[2][(] _c[Θ] , g[c] ,[,] x[ g] ,[,] t[ x]_[)] =△ _Var_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ ] = _E_ {[ _Yc, g, x, t_ − _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ )][2] | _Θc, g, x_ }, the conditional variance of _Yc, g, x, t_ at level 0, given the age risk parameter _Θc, g, x_ at level 1, where _wc, g, x, t_ is a known exposure unit and not necessarily equal for all _c_ , _g_ , _x_ and _t_ (the traditional Bühlmann-Straub credibility model allows unequal exposure units for more applications, but the Bühlmann one requires equal exposure units). 

Last, the variance for level 3 and the expected conditional variances for levels 0–2 are denoted as follows: 

- 

- • Level 3: _σ_ 3[2] = _Var_ [ _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ )], the variance of _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ ) at level 3; △ 

- • Level 2: _σ_ 2[2] = _E_ [ _σ_ 23[(] _[Ψ][c]_[)][]][=] _[E]_[{] _[Var]_[[] _[µ]_[2][(] _[Φ][c][,][ g]_[)][|] _[Ψ][c]_[]}][,][the][ex-] pectation of the conditional variance of _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ ) at level 2, given the country risk parameter _Ψc_ at level 3; △ 

- • Level 1: _σ_ 1[2] = _E_ [ _σ_ 22[(] _[Φ][c][,][ g]_[)][]][=] _[E]_[{] _[Var]_[[] _[µ]_[1][(] _[Θ][c][,][ g][,][ x]_[)][|] _[Φ][c][,][ g]_[]}][,][the] expectation of the conditional variance of _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) at level 1, given the gender risk parameter _Φc, g_ at level 2; and 

- 

- • Level 0: _σ_ 0[2] = _E_ [ _σ_ 21[(] _[Θ][c][,][ g][,][ x]_[)][]][=] _[E]_[{] _[w][c][,][ g][,][ x][,][ t]_[·] _[Var]_[[] _[Y][c][,][ g][,][ x][,][ t]_[|] _Θc, g, x_ ]}, the expectation of _wc, g, x, t_ times the conditional variance of _Yc, g, x, t_ at level 0, given the age risk parameter _Θc, g, x_ at level 1. 

It can be shown by the law of total expectation that _σ_ 0[2] = _E_ { _wc, g, x, t_ · [ _Yc, g, x, t_ − _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ )][2] }, _σ_ 1[2] = _E_ {[ _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) − _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )][2] }, _σ_ 2[2][=] _[E]_[{[] _[µ]_[2][(] _[Φ][c][,][ g]_[)][−] _[µ]_[3][(] _[Ψ][c]_[)][]][2][}][, and] _[ σ]_ 3[ 2][=] _[E]_[{[] _[µ]_[3][(] _[Ψ][c]_[)][−] _µ_ 4][2] }. 

Note that by the law of total variance, we have 

_Var_ [ _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )] = _E_ { _Var_ [ _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )| _Ψc_ ]} + _Var_ { _E_ [ _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )| _Ψc_ ]} = _σ_ 2[2][+] _[ Var]_[[] _[µ]_[3][(] _[Ψ][c]_[)][] =] _[ σ]_[ 2] 2[+] _[ σ]_[ 2] 3 _[,]_ 

and 

**==> picture [218 x 37] intentionally omitted <==**

The estimation of structural parameters and determination of credibility factors, based on the Hilbert projection theorem, given in Chapter 6 of Bühlmann and Gisler (2005) are quite complicated, and thus are placed in Appendix B. 

If _wc, g, x, t_ = 1 (equal exposure units) for _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ , _g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ , _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ , and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , then _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 = ln( _m_ ˆ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _T_ +1)− ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _T_ ), the hierarchical credibility estimate of the decrement in the logarithm of central death rate over [ _T , T_ + 1] for age _x_ , gender _g_ and country _c_ , by (B.7), ˆ with _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) = _E_[ˆ] [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ ] being denoted by _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1, is given as 

**==> picture [252 x 41] intentionally omitted <==**

where the expressions for _α_ ˆ[(1)] , _α_ ˆ[(2)] and _α_ ˆ[(3)] in (2.2) are given in Table B.3. Note that _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 is the credibility-factor-weighted average of 

- _Y c, g, x,_ • = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1 _[Y][c][,][ g][,][ x][,][ t]_[=] _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1[[][ln(] _[m][c][,][ g][,][ x] L_[+] _[x]_[−][1] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][ −] ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] (the average annual decrement of {ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ ) : _t_ = 0 _, . . . , T_ }, the **age** time series (trend) at level 1 over [0 _, T_ ] for age _x_ under gender _g_ and country _c_ ); 

- _Y c, g,_ • _,_ • = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1 _Y c, g,_ • _, t_ = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1[[][ln(] _[m][c][,][ g][,]_[ •] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][−] ln( _mc, g,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] (the average annual decrement of {ln ( _mc, g,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) = _X_ 1 ∑ _Xx_ =1[ln(] _[m][c][,][ g][,][ x] L_[+] _[x]_[−][1] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][:] _[t]_[=][0] _[, . . . ,][ T]_[}][,] the **gender** time series (trend) at level 2 over [0 _, T_ ] for gender _g_ under country _c_ ); 

- _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1 _Y c,_ • _,_ • _, t_ = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1[[][ln(] _[m][c][,]_[ •] _[,]_[ •] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][−] ln( _mc,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] (the average annual decrement of _G_ 

- {ln( _mc,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) = _G_[1] ∑ _g_ =1[ln(] _[m][c][,][ g][,]_[ •] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][ :] _[t]_[=][0] _[, . . . ,][ T]_[}][,][the] **country** time series (trend) at level 3 over [0 _, T_ ] for country _c_ ); and 

- • _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1 _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, t_ = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1[[][ln(] _[m]_[•] _[,]_[ •] _[,]_[ •] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][−] ln( _m_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] (the average annual decrement of {ln( _m_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) = _C_ 1 ∑ _Cc_ =1[ln(] _[m][c][,]_[ •] _[,]_[ •] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][:] _[t]_[=][0] _[, . . . ,][ T]_[}][,] the **multi-country** time series (trend) at level 4 over [0 _, T_ ] for all _C_ countries). 

Thus, the average annual decrements of the age, gender, country and multi-country time series have different degrees of contributions _Y_ ˆ _c, g, x, T_ +1. toFig.the5 displaysvalue of fourthe hierarchicaltime series forcredibilitylevels 1–4estimatewith _x_ = 50 and _tL_ = 1950 for both genders of the US, the UK and Japan: 

- {ln( _mc, g, x, tL_ + _t_ ) : _t_ = 0 _, . . . ,_ 60}, the **age** time series for age _x_ under gender _g_ and country _c_ ; 

- {ln( _mc, g,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) : _t_ = 0 _, . . . ,_ 60}, the **gender** time series for gender _g_ under country _c_ ; 

- {ln( _mc,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) : _t_ = 0 _, . . . ,_ 60}, the **country** time series for country _c_ ; and 

- {ln( _m_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) : _t_ = 0 _, . . . ,_ 60}, the **multi-country** (US, UK and Japan) time series. 

Taking the first-order difference of each time series to get the yearly decrement data and then calculating the average of the resulting yearly decrements for each level produces _Y c, g, x,_ • (called the age sample mean), _Y c, g,_ • _,_ • (called the gender sample mean), _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (called the country sample mean), and _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (called the multi-country sample mean). 

The expression in (2.2) gives the hierarchical credibility estimate _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 for country _c_ , gender _g_ and age _x_ in year _T_ + 1. To obtain the hierarchical credibility estimate _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ_ for year _T_ + _τ_ ( _τ_ ≥ 2), which is denoted by 

**==> picture [252 x 49] intentionally omitted <==**

we adopt the same two strategies, the expanding window (EW) strategy and the moving window (MW) strategy, as those in the Bühlmann credibility mortality model of Tsai and Lin (2017b), ~~_T_~~ + _τ T_ + _τ_ ~~_T_~~ + _τ T_ + _τ_ where _Y c, g, x,_ •[,] _Y c, g,_ • _,_ •[,] _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ •[, and] _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ •[are the age,][gender,] country and multi-country sample means, respectively, calculated in year _T_ + _τ_ using past mortality data. 

## **Strategy EW: Expanding window by** ( _τ_ − 1) **years** 

The EW strategy expands the original fitting age-year window by ( _τ_ − 1) years to [1 _, X_ ]×[1 _, T_ + _τ_ − 1] from [1 _, X_ ]×[1 _, T_ ] by adding { _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 _, . . . , Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ_ −1} to the end of { _Yc, g, x,_ 1 _, . . . , Yc, g, x, T_ } for all ages _x_ under gender _g_ and country _c_ ; see Fig. 6(a). 

_T_ + _τ_ First, the age sample mean _Y c, g, x,_ •[(the average annual decre-] ment over the year span [1 _, T_ + _τ_ − 1] for age _x_ under gender _g_ 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

42 

**Fig. 5.** Time series for levels 1–4. 

**Fig. 6.** Expanding Window (EW) and Moving Window (MW). 

and country _c_ ), _τ_ ≥ 2, is calculated by 

**==> picture [252 x 139] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [252 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

Next, _α_ ˆ _τ_[(1)][,][the][credibility][factor][assigned][to] _Y_ ~~_T_~~ _c,_ + _gτ, x,_ •[,][is][calcu-] lated as 

**==> picture [252 x 25] intentionally omitted <==**

The other two credibility factors _α_ ˆ _τ_[(2)] and _α_ ˆ _τ_[(3)] are given by 

**==> picture [252 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [252 x 54] intentionally omitted <==**

Finally, the hierarchical credibility estimate _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ_ for country _c_ , gender _g_ and age _x_ in year _T_ + _τ_ is obtained by (2.3). 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

43 

## **Strategy MW: Moving window by** ( _τ_ − 1) **years** 

The MW strategy moves the original fitting age-year window by ( _τ_ − 1) years to [1 _, X_ ] × [ _τ, T_ + _τ_ − 1] from [1 _, X_ ] × [1 _, T_ ] by appending { _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 _, . . . , Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ_ −1} to and removing { _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x,_ 1 _, . . . , Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, τ_ −1} from { _Yc, g, x,_ 1 _, . . . , Yc, g, x, T_ } for all ages _x_ under gender _g_ and country _c_ , where _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, t_ = _Yc, g, x, t_ for _t_ ≤ _T_ ; see Fig. 6(b). 

~~_T_~~ + _τ_ First, we obtain the age sample mean _Y c, g, x,_ •[,][the][average] annual decrement over the year span [ _τ, T_ + _τ_ − 1] for age _x_ under gender _g_ and country _c_ , by 

**==> picture [252 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

and the gender, country and multi-country sample means, ~~_T_~~ + _τ_ ~~_T_~~ + _τ_ ~~_T_~~ + _τ Y c, g,_ • _,_ •[,] _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ •[,][and] _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ •[,][are][calculated][using][(2.5)–(2.7)][,] respectively. 

_T_ + _τ_ Next, the credibilityˆ factor assigned to _Y c, g, x,_ •[is][achieved][by] _α_ ˆ _τ_[(1)] =ˆ _T_ · _Tσ_ ˆ1·[2] ˆ _σ_[+] 1[2] _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 0ˆ . As _σ_ ˆ0ˆ[2][,] _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 1[,] _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 2[,] ˆ _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 3[are] ˆ[unchanged][for][all] _[ τ]_[,][we] have _α_ ˆ _τ_[(1)][,] _[α]_[ˆ] _ατ_[(2)] _τ_[(1)] and= _αα_ ˆ[(1)] _τ_[(3)] , are constant in _ατ_[(2)] = _α_[(2)] and _τα_ under the MW strategy. Finally, _τ_[(3)] = _α_[(3)] for _τ_ ≥ 2. Therefore, we can calculate _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ_ , the decrement in the logarithm of central death rate over [ _T_ + _τ_ − 1 _, T_ + _τ_ ] for age _x_ , gender _g_ and country _c_ , using (2.3). 

Finally, we can prove the following proposition regarding some properties for the EW and MW strategies. 

**Proposition 1.** ( _a_ ) _Under the EW and MW strategies, the average of the hierarchical credibility estimates Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ for year T_ + _τ over ages_ 1 _, . . . , X, genders_ 1 _, . . . , G, and countries_ 1 _, . . . , C equals the T_ + _τ average of the age sample mean Y c, g, x,_ • _[for year T]_[+] _[τ][(given in]_[ (2.4)] _and_ (2.11) _) over the same age, gender and country spans, which is T_ + _τ Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • _[(the multi-country sample mean for year T]_[ +] _[τ][). Specifically,]_ 

**==> picture [237 x 48] intentionally omitted <==**

( _b_ ) _Under the EW strategy, the multi-country sample mean for year T_ + _τ T_ + _τ T T_ ++1 _τ , Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • _[,][τ]_[=][1] _[,]_[2] _[,][. . .][,][are][constant][in][τ][,][i.e.,] Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ •[=] _Y_ ( _Y_ ˆ _cc_ •) _,, g_ • _,Under, c_ • _,, T_ •+ _[,] τ[τ] for country c, gender gthe_[=][2] _[,] EW_[ 3] _[, . . .] strategy,[.] theand age x in year Thierarchical credibility_ + _τ is constantestimate for τ_ = 1 _,_ 2 _, . . .; i.e., Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ_ = _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 _, τ_ = 2 _,_ 3 _, . . .._ 

Proposition 1 (for the five-level hierarchical credibility model) is a generalization of Proposition 1 (for a three-level one) in Tsai and Lin (2017b). Both proofs are very similar, but the proof to (c) of the former is far more complicated than (c) of the latter. 

From Proposition 1(c), under the EW strategy we have 

**==> picture [223 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

Thus, ln( ˆ _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ) is a linear function of _τ_ with intercept ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ ) and slope _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 which is the decrement per year in the logarithm of central death rate. 

## **3. Numerical illustrations** 

This section applies the three/four/five-level hierarchical models and the estimated structural parameters introduced in 

Section 2 to forecasting mortality rates for six populations (both genders of the US, the UK, and Japan) for numerical illustrations. The mortality data are obtained from the Human Mortality Database (HMD). We fit three-level, four-level, and five-level hierarchical credibility models, respectively, with a wide age span and a series of fitting year spans, and make out-of-sample forecasts for future consecutive years. The same data set is also fitted to the classical Lee–Carter model and three multi-population (the joint- _k_ , the co-integrated, and the augmented common factor) Lee–Carter models with mortality data from six populations and two populations of each of three countries, respectively. The forecasting performance is measured by the average of mean absolute percentage error (AMAPE), which shows that all of the three-level, four-level and five-level hierarchical credibility mortality models overall outperform the classical and three multi-population Lee–Carter models. 

For each of the three-level, four-level, and five-level hierarchical credibility models, the EW and MW strategies are adopted to forecast mortality rates for 10, 20 and 30 years. We denote EW- _l_ and MW- _l_ for the EW and MW strategies, respectively, under the _l_ -level hierarchical credibility model where _l_ = 3 _,_ 4 _,_ 5. The three-level hierarchical credibility model with a tree structure of year, age and population (male or female of a country) is applied to each of the six populations. Under the four-level (five-level) hierarchical credibility model, the tree structure from the bottom to the top is specified as year, age, gender and country (year, age, gender, country and multi-country), and is applied to both genders of each of three countries (all six populations). To compare the forecasting performance of the three-level hierarchical credibility models, the mortality data for each of the six populations are respectively fitted to the classical Lee–Carter model, which is denoted as LC1–Ind; and to compare the forecasting performance of the four-level (five-level) hierarchical credibility model, the mortality data for both genders of each of three countries (all six populations) are respectively fitted to the joint- _k_ , the cointegrated, and the augmented common factor Lee–Carter models with the male of a country (the US male) as the base population for the co-integrated Lee–Carter model, which are denoted by LC2–JoK, LC2–CoI and LC2–ACF (LC6–JoK, LC6–CoI and LC6–ACF). 

Let [ _T_ 1 _, T_ 2] be the study period where mortality rates are available. Assume that we stand at the end of year _tU_ and would like to fit the models with mortality data in a rectangle [ _xL, xU_ ]× [ _tL, tU_ ], project mortality rates for the rectangle [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2], and evaluate the forecast performances of the underlying mortality models by comparing the projected mortality rates with the observed ones in [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2]. Below are detailed assumptions. 

- For the age span [ _xL, xU_ ], we choose _xL_ = 20 and _xU_ = 84, and the length of the age span _m_ = 65. 

- For the study period [ _T_ 1 _, T_ 2], we use a 63-year period 1951– 2013, i.e., _T_ 1 = 1951 and _T_ 2 = 2013 which is the most recent year where the mortality rates are available for both genders of the US, the UK, and Japan. 

- For the fitting year spans [ _tL, tU_ ], a series of periods, [1951 _, tU_ ] _, . . . ,_ [ _tU_ −4 _, tU_ ], are selected where _tU_ takes three values of 1983, 1993 and 2003, and the shortest period [ _tU_ − 4 _, tU_ ] is five years wide. 

- For the forecasting year span [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2], we choose [2004 _,_ 2013] (10 years wide), [1994 _,_ 2013] (20 years wide) and [1984 _,_ 2013] (30 years wide). 

Table 1 gives a summary of the fitting and forecasting year spans. 

We compare the forecasting performances of the hierarchical credibility models with the classical, the joint- _k_ , the cointegrated, and the augmented common factor Lee–Carter models 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

44 

**Table 1** 

Summary of the fitting and forecasting year spans. 

|||[1951_,_ 2003]|[1951_,_ 1993]|[1951_,_ 1983]|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Fitting year spans|[_tL, tU_]|[1952_,_ 2003]|[1952_,_ 1993]|[1952_,_ 1983]|
|||_..._|_..._|_..._|
|||[1999_,_ 2003]|[1989_,_ 1993]|[1979_,_ 1983]|
|Ending year of fitting year spans|_tU_|2003|1993|1983|
|Number of fitting year spans|_J_|49|39|29|
|Forecasting year spans|[_tU_ +1_, T_2]|[2004_,_2013]|[1994_,_2013]|[1984_,_2013]|
|Width of forecasting year spans|_T_2−_tU_|10|20|30|



**Table 2** 

_AMAPEc, g,_ [2004 _,_ 2013]s (%). 

|_AMAPEc, g,_[2004_,_2013]s (%).||||
|---|---|---|---|
|AMAPE<br>Country<br>Model<br>Avg 6|US<br>M<br>F<br>Avg 2|UK<br>M<br>F<br>Avg 2|Japan|
||||M<br>F<br>Avg 2|
|Hierarchical Credibility (HC) model||||
|EW–5<br>6.63<br>5.58<br>4.92<br>5.25<br>MW–5<br>6.66<br>5.60<br>4.93<br>5.26<br>EW–4<br>7.23<br>6.36<br>5.53<br>5.95<br>MW–4<br>7.16<br>6.41<br>5.56<br>5.99<br>EW–3<br>7.47<br>6.00<br>6.04<br>6.02<br>MW–3<br>7.41<br>5.96<br>6.14<br>6.05||9.48<br>7.87<br>8.68<br>9.57<br>7.95<br>8.76<br>9.86<br>8.24<br>9.05<br>9.79<br>8.17<br>8.98<br>9.78<br>8.33<br>9.06<br>9.61<br>8.36<br>8.98|5.74<br>6.20<br>5.97<br>5.77<br>6.16<br>5.97<br>5.86<br>7.52<br>6.69<br>5.76<br>7.27<br>6.52<br>5.83<br>8.85<br>7.34<br>5.85<br>8.54<br>7.19|
|Lee–Carter model applied to all six populations||(LC6)||
|LC6–JoK<br>10.61<br>10.27<br>8.54<br>9.40<br>LC6–CoI<br>9.69<br>9.23<br>8.57<br>8.90<br>LC6–ACF<br>9.22<br>7.46<br>8.45<br>7.96||15.10<br>10.23<br>12.66<br>12.64<br>9.79<br>11.22<br>13.94<br>8.24<br>11.09|7.98<br>11.56<br>9.77<br>7.93<br>9.95<br>8.94<br>6.26<br>10.96<br>8.61|
|Lee–Carter model applied to both genders of a country (LC2)||||
|LC2–JoK<br>9.77<br>10.06<br>8.75<br>9.41<br>12.95<br>8.89<br>10.92<br>LC2–CoI<br>9.59<br>9.23<br>8.57<br>8.90<br>12.28<br>9.32<br>10.80<br>LC2–ACF<br>9.60<br>9.58<br>8.25<br>8.92<br>12.16<br>9.26<br>10.71|||7.61<br>10.39<br>9.00<br>7.63<br>10.50<br>9.06<br>7.57<br>10.77<br>9.17|
|Lee–Carter model applied to a single population (LC1)||||
|LC1–Ind<br>9.64<br>9.23<br>8.57<br>8.90<br>12.28<br>9.36<br>10.82|||7.63<br>10.77<br>9.20|



by the measure of mean absolute percentage error (MAPE), which is a common measurement as used in Tsai and Lin (2017a,b). Specifically, the _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2][for gender] _[ g]_[and country] _[ c]_[over] the forecasting age-year window [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2] with the fitting year span [ _tL, tU_ ] is defined by 

_MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2] 

**==> picture [241 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

where _q_ ˆ _c, g, x, tU_ + _τ_ is the predicted mortality rate, _qc, g, x, tU_ + _τ_ is ˆ the observed mortality rate, and _qc, g, x, tU_ + _τ_ = 1 − _e_[−ˆ] _[m][c][,][ g][,][ x][,][ tU]_[ +] _[τ]_ is based on the assumption of constant force of mortality over [ _x, x_ + 1] × [ _tU_ + _τ, tU_ + _τ_ + 1]. The value of _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2] largely depends on the fitting year span [ _tL, tU_ ]. To evaluate the overall forecasting performance of a mortality model, we average the _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2][over][the][fitting][year][spans][[] _[t][L][,][t][U]_[]][for] _[t][L]_[=] _T_ 1 _, T_ 1 + 1 _, . . . , tU_ − 4 to get the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _, T_ 2]. Specifically, 

**==> picture [231 x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

A smaller _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _, T_ 2] produced from a mortality model indicates an overall more accurate forecast for the period [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2]. The underlying mortality models in this paper will be ranked based on the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _, T_ 2]. 

Tables 2–4 exhibit the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013], the ‘‘Avg 2’’ (the average of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] over both genders of a country) and the ‘‘Avg 6’’ (the average of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] over all six populations) for three forecasting year spans [2004 _,_ 2013] ( _tU_ = 2003), [1994 _,_ 2013] ( _tU_ = 1993), and [1984 _,_ 2013] 

( _tU_ = 1983), respectively. Note that three Lee–Carter models for two populations (LC2) and six populations (LC6) are different. For LC2, the joint- _k_ (JoK), the co-integrated (CoI), and the augmented common factor (ACF) Lee–Carter models are fitted into both genders of a country; for LC6, the three multi-population Lee–Carter models are fitted into both genders of all three countries. 

- Observing the values in Tables 2–4, it is obvious that the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] values become larger as the length of the forecasting year span increases from 10 to 30 years. 

- Based on the average of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] over six populations (‘‘Avg 6’’), we observe that the hierarchical credibility model with more levels provides more accurate forecasting performance. However, this conclusion does not apply to ‘‘Avg 2’’ (the average of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] over both genders of a country). The forecasting performance ranking based on ‘‘Avg 2’’ depends on country. For example, according to the ‘‘Avg 2’’ in Table 4 for the forecasting period [1984 _,_ 2013], the five-level hierarchical credibility model has the worst forecast accuracy and the four-level one performs the best for the US, whereas the five-level hierarchical credibility model has the best forecast accuracy and the four-level one performs the worst for Japan. 

- The _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] values and their averages, ‘‘Avg 6’’ and ‘‘Avg 2’’, under both of the EW and MW strategies, given the hierarchical credibility model of equal level, are close to each other. 

- Among the three Lee–Carter models applied to six populations, ‘‘Avg 6’’ (the average of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] over all six populations) shows that the augmented common factor model LC6–ACF is the most accurate for the forecasting periods [2004 _,_ 2013] and [1984 _,_ 2013], the co-integrated 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

45 

**Table 3** 

_AMAPEc, g,_ [1994 _,_ 2013]s (%). 

|_AMAPEc, g,_[1994_,_2013]s (%).||||
|---|---|---|---|
|AMAPE<br>Country<br>Model<br>Avg 6|US<br>M<br>F<br>Avg 2|UK<br>M<br>F<br>Avg 2|Japan|
||||M<br>F<br>Avg 2|
|Hierarchical Credibility (HC) model||||
|EW–5<br>10.41<br>10.12<br>7.56<br>8.84<br>MW–5<br>10.55<br>10.41<br>7.13<br>8.77<br>EW–4<br>11.85<br>13.77<br>6.05<br>9.91<br>MW–4<br>11.74<br>14.39<br>6.12<br>10.26<br>EW–3<br>11.98<br>14.97<br>6.14<br>10.55<br>MW–3<br>11.81<br>15.04<br>6.32<br>10.68||14.00<br>9.05<br>11.53<br>14.39<br>9.45<br>11.92<br>14.94<br>10.03<br>12.48<br>15.07<br>10.14<br>12.61<br>15.57<br>9.50<br>12.53<br>15.48<br>9.79<br>12.63|8.52<br>13.18<br>10.85<br>8.66<br>13.24<br>10.95<br>12.19<br>14.10<br>13.15<br>11.17<br>13.56<br>12.37<br>10.05<br>15.63<br>12.84<br>9.49<br>14.75<br>12.12|
|Lee–Carter model applied to all six populations||(LC6)||
|LC6–JoK<br>14.71<br>16.64<br>9.59<br>13.11<br>LC6–CoI<br>13.98<br>16.48<br>8.32<br>12.40<br>LC6–ACF<br>14.25<br>18.19<br>8.95<br>13.57||19.11<br>13.63<br>16.37<br>18.71<br>13.81<br>16.26<br>18.92<br>10.75<br>14.83|12.93<br>16.37<br>14.65<br>11.31<br>15.27<br>13.29<br>11.30<br>17.39<br>14.34|
|Lee–Carter model applied to both genders of a country (LC2)||||
|LC2–JoK<br>14.31<br>16.75<br>8.55<br>12.65<br>17.64<br>13.05<br>15.34<br>LC2–CoI<br>14.14<br>16.48<br>8.32<br>12.40<br>17.43<br>13.12<br>15.28<br>LC2–ACF<br>14.02<br>16.36<br>7.61<br>11.98<br>17.34<br>13.01<br>15.17|||13.19<br>16.71<br>14.95<br>12.74<br>16.73<br>14.73<br>12.68<br>17.14<br>14.91|
|Lee–Carter model applied to a single population (LC1)||||
|LC1–Ind<br>14.23<br>16.48<br>8.50<br>12.49<br>17.43<br>13.07<br>15.25|||12.74<br>17.14<br>14.94|



## **Table 4** 

_AMAPEc, g,_ [1984 _,_ 2013]s (%). 

|_AMAPEc, g,_[1984_,_2013]s (%).||||
|---|---|---|---|
|AMAPE<br>Country<br>Model<br>Avg 6|US<br>M<br>F<br>Avg 2|UK<br>M<br>F<br>Avg 2|Japan|
||||M<br>F<br>Avg 2|
|Hierarchical Credibility (HC) model||||
|EW–5<br>14.01<br>13.57<br>17.33<br>15.45<br>MW–5<br>14.02<br>13.48<br>18.26<br>15.87<br>EW–4<br>14.60<br>11.45<br>13.42<br>12.44<br>MW–4<br>14.28<br>11.63<br>15.38<br>13.50<br>EW–3<br>15.03<br>11.71<br>15.41<br>13.56<br>MW–3<br>14.55<br>11.83<br>16.37<br>14.10||16.94<br>10.63<br>13.78<br>16.44<br>10.60<br>13.52<br>18.00<br>10.03<br>14.01<br>17.03<br>9.53<br>13.28<br>19.26<br>9.56<br>14.41<br>17.98<br>9.58<br>13.78|10.69<br>14.90<br>12.79<br>10.85<br>14.50<br>12.67<br>17.63<br>17.09<br>17.36<br>16.12<br>15.98<br>16.05<br>13.88<br>20.39<br>17.13<br>12.62<br>18.94<br>15.78|
|Lee–Carter model applied to all six populations||(LC6)||
|LC6–JoK<br>19.57<br>14.43<br>17.01<br>15.72<br>LC6–CoI<br>17.97<br>13.43<br>15.60<br>14.52<br>LC6–ACF<br>17.26<br>12.32<br>16.15<br>14.24||24.29<br>16.90<br>20.60<br>23.86<br>17.15<br>20.51<br>23.02<br>13.30<br>18.16|19.99<br>24.79<br>22.39<br>16.39<br>21.37<br>18.88<br>15.36<br>23.43<br>19.40|
|Lee–Carter model applied to both genders of a country (LC2)||||
|LC2–JoK<br>18.40<br>13.42<br>17.11<br>15.27<br>22.63<br>16.59<br>19.61<br>LC2–CoI<br>17.92<br>13.43<br>15.60<br>14.52<br>22.53<br>16.62<br>19.58<br>LC2–ACF<br>18.41<br>14.32<br>16.49<br>15.41<br>22.43<br>16.89<br>19.66|||17.99<br>22.61<br>20.30<br>17.05<br>22.26<br>19.65<br>16.90<br>23.46<br>20.18|
|Lee–Carter model applied to a single population (LC1)||||
|LC1–Ind<br>18.25<br>13.43<br>16.26<br>14.85<br>22.53<br>16.78<br>19.66|||17.05<br>23.44<br>20.24|



model LC6–CoI performs the best for the forecasting period [1994 _,_ 2013], and the joint- _k_ model LC6–JoK is the least accurate for all three forecasting periods. Moreover, the LC2–JoK model outperforms the LC6–JoK model for all three forecasting periods, the LC2–CoI model is better than the LC6–CoI model for [2004 _,_ 2013] and [1984 _,_ 2013], and the LC2–ACF model is worse than the LC6–ACF model for [2004 _,_ 2013] and [1984 _,_ 2013]. 

- From Tables 2–4, we observe that most of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] values under the hierarchical credibility models for all three forecasting periods and six populations are lower than those under the Lee–Carter models. As a result, the averages of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] over both genders of a country and over six populations for all the three forecasting periods under the hierarchical credibility models are far lower than those under the Lee–Carter models. For example, for the 30-year forecasting period [1984 _,_ 2013], the averages of the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _,_ 2013] over six populations for the joint- _k_ , the co-integrated, and the augmented common factor Lee–Carter models applied to six populations and two populations and for the classical Lee– Carter model applied to a single population are 19.57% (LC6– Jok), 17.97% (LC6–CoI), 17.26% (LC6–ACF), 18.40% (LC2–Jok), 

17.92% (LC2–CoI), 18.41% (LC2–ACF) and 18.25% (LC1–Ind), respectively, whereas those for the EW and MW strategies under the five/four/three-level hierarchical credibility models are 14.01% (EW–5), 14.02% (MW–5), 14.60% (EW–4), 14.28% (MW–4), 15.03% (EW–3) and 14.55% (MW–3), respectively. Therefore, the numerical illustrations highly support the conclusion that the hierarchical credibility models outperform the Lee–Carter models. 

Fig. 7 displays the average of the _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _,_ 2013][s][over][the] six populations (US male, US female, UK male, UK female, Japan male and Japan female) against _tL_ , where _tU_ = 2003 _,_ 1993, and 1983 for three forecasting year spans. Within the figure, the plots of the average of _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _,_ 2013][for][three][forecasting][year] spans are shown in three rows, and those for a single population, two populations, and six populations to which the models are respectively fitted are given in three columns. Observations are summarized below. 

- The average of _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2][s for the EW and MW strate-] gies under the hierarchical credibility models is lower than those for the Lee–Carter models. Moreover, the MW strategy produces smoother curves in _tL_ than the EW one. 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

46 

**==> picture [476 x 284] intentionally omitted <==**

**Fig. 7.** Average of _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] t_[ ]] _U_ +1 _,_ 2013][over][6][populations][against] _[t][L]_[with][age][span][20–84.] 

- The average of _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2][s][for][all][models][and][two] strategies is neither monotonically decreasing nor increasing with _tL_ (the start year of the fitting year span), i.e., the average of _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2][s][depends][on][the][range][of][the] fitting year span. Since we do not know which fitting year span will result in the lowest _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2][, we calculate] the _AMAPEc, g,_ [ _tU_ +1 _, T_ 2] (the average of the _MAPEc_[[] _[t] ,[L] g[,] ,[ t]_ [ _[U] tU_[]] +1 _, T_ 2] over all values of _tL_ ) in Tables 2–4, and use it to rank the underlying mortality models for their forecasting performances for country _c_ , gender _g_ , and the forecasting period [ _tU_ + 1 _, T_ 2]. 

In summary, a hierarchical credibility model with more levels produces better prediction results, and the EW and MW strategies have similar forecasting performances. Regardless of the length of the fitting year span and forecasting year span, the hierarchical credibility models overall provide more accurate forecasts than the single-/multi-population Lee–Carter models. Therefore, we conclude that the hierarchical credibility model is an effective approach to modelling multi-population mortality rates. 

More levels can be added to a tree structure based on some criteria. However, a hierarchical tree structure with more levels also come with more structural parameters and more complicated expressions for the estimates of parameters. As mentioned in Sec" tion 6.6 of Bühlmann and Gisler (2005), · · · one should be parsimonious when choosing the number of levels in a hierarchical credibility model". 

## **4. Stochastic mortality model** 

In this section, we give a stochastic version of the proposed hierarchical credibility mortality model by including stochastic error terms in the model. The variances of the error terms can be estimated from mortality data in all of the age-year windows [ _xL, xU_ ] × [ _tL, tU_ ] for country _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ and gender 

_g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ . The stochastic version can be used to construct predictive intervals on the projected mortality rates and to conduct stochastic simulations for applications. For example, if we would like to price a mortality-linked security based on a mortality index which is composed of mortality rates for country _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ , gender _g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ , age _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ , and year _t_ = _T_ + 1 _, . . . , T_ + _τ_ . The expected mortality index is computed with the projected mortality rates, and we can simulate the mortality index ten thousand times with the stochastic version of the proposed hierarchical credibility mortality model. Then the value at risk (VaR) of the distribution of the simulated mortality index can be computed to serve as a value of the mortality index with safety margin. 

From (2.1), the hierarchical credibility estimate ln( ˆ _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ) for country _c_ , gender _g_ , age _xL_ + _x_ − 1, and year _tU_ + _τ_ is 

**==> picture [220 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [53 x 9] intentionally omitted <==**

where _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _t_ is given in (2.3); the corresponding stochastic version is given by 

**==> picture [220 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [54 x 8] intentionally omitted <==**

where _Y_ and _m_ are capped by symbol ∼ (∧) to represent stochastic random variables (estimated/predicted values), and _Y_[˜] _c, g, x, T_ + _t_ , by adding _εc, g, x, T_ + _t_ (the age error term), _εc, g, T_ + _t_ (the gender error term), _εc, T_ + _t_ (the country error term), and _εT_ + _t_ (the multicountry error term) to (2.3), is given as 

**==> picture [206 x 33] intentionally omitted <==**

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

47 

**==> picture [428 x 274] intentionally omitted <==**

**Fig. 8.** A sample of QQ plots. 

**==> picture [192 x 46] intentionally omitted <==**

Then 

**==> picture [250 x 84] intentionally omitted <==**

ˆ To obtain _σ_[2] (ln( _m_ ˜ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ )), the estimate of the variance of ln( _m_ ˜ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ), we assume that 

- level 0 error terms, _εc, g, x, t_ = ( _Yc, g, x, t_ − _Y c, g, x,_ •) _, t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , for each country _c_ , gender _g_ and age _x_ are independent and identically normally distributed (assumed same as _εc, g, x_ ) with mean zero and variance _σ_ 0[2][;] 

- level 1 error terms, _εc, g, t_ = ( _Y c, g,_ • _, t_ − _Y c, g,_ • _,_ •) _, t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , for each country _c_ and gender _g_ are independent and identically normally distributed (assumed same as _εc, g_ ) with mean zero and variance _σ_ 1[2][;] 

- level 2 error terms, _εc, t_ = ( _Y c,_ • _,_ • _, t_ − _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ •) _, t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , for each country _c_ are independent and identically normally distributed (assumed same as _εc_ ) with mean zero and variance _σ_ 2[2][;][and] 

- level 3 error terms, _εt_ = ( _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, t_ − _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ •) _, t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ are independent and identically normally distributed (assumed same as _ε_ ) with mean zero and variance _σ_ 3[2][;] 

where _εc, g, x, t_ , _εc, g, t_ , _εc, t_ and _εt_ are the error terms of the random walk with drift models for 

- {ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ ) : _t_ = 0 _, . . . , T_ } (the **age** time series for age _xL_ + _x_ − 1 under gender _g_ and country _c_ ) at level 0, 

- • {ln( _mc, g,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) = (1 _/X_ )[∑] _[X] x_ =1[ln(] _[m][c][,][ g][,][ x] L_[+] _[x]_[−][1] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][:] _t_ = 0 _, . . . , T_ } (the **gender** time series for gender _g_ under country _c_ ) at level 1, 

- {ln( _mc,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) = (1 _/G_ )[∑] _[G] g_ =1[ln(] _[m][c][,][ g][,]_[ •] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][:] _[t]_[=][0] _[, . . . ,][ T]_[}] (the **country** time series for country _c_ ) at level 2, and 

- {ln( _m_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) = (1 _/C_ )[∑] _[C] c_ =1[ln(] _[m][c][,]_[ •] _[,]_[ •] _[,][ t] L_[+] _[t]_[)][ :] _[t]_[=][0] _[, . . . ,][ T]_[}][,] (the **multi-country** (US, UK and Japan) time series) at level 3, 

respectively. This is equivalent to that the first-order difference (the yearly decrement) of each time series, 

- { _Yc, g, x, t_ = [ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ ) − ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] : _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ } at level 0, 

- { _Y c, g,_ • _, t_ = [ln( _mc, g,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) − ln( _mc, g,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] : _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ } at level 1, 

- • { _Y c,_ • _,_ • _, t_ = [ln( _mc,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) − ln( _mc,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] : _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ } at level 2, and 

- • { _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, t_ = [ln( _m_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ ) − ln( _m_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ −1)] : _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ } at level 3, 

is an independent and identically normally distributed sequence. The corresponding drifts (means) are estimated by _Y c, g, x,_ • (= (1 _/T_ )[∑] _[T] t_ =1 _[Y][c][,][ g][,][ x][,][ t]_[,][the][age][sample][mean),] _Y c, g,_ • _,_ • (= (1 _/T_ )[∑] _[T] t_ =1 _Y c, g,_ • _, t_ , the gender sample mean), _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (= (1 _/T_ )[∑] _[T] t_ =1 _Y c,_ • _,_ • _, t_ , the country sample mean), and _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (= (1 _/T_ )[∑] _[T] t_ =1 _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, t_ , the multi-country sample mean), respectively. Fig. 8(a), (b), (c) and (d) give a sample of { _Yc, g, x, t_ }, { _Y c, g,_ • _, t_ }, { _Y c,_ • _,_ • _, t_ }, and { _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, t_ } (with _C_ = 3, and _c_ = 2 for the UK; _G_ = 2, and _g_ = 1 for male; _X_ = 65 for the age span [20 _,_ 84], and _x_ = 31 for age 50; _T_ = 60 for the year span [1951 _,_ 2010]), respectively, for the independent and identical normal assumptions. 

ˆ With _σ_[2] (ln( _m_ ˜ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ )), the estimate of the variance of ln( _m_ ˜ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ), a 100(1 − _γ_ )% predictive interval on 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

48 

ln( _m_ ˆ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ) can be constructed as 

ˆ ln( _m_ ˆ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ) ± _zγ /_ 2 × _σ_ (ln( _m_ ˜ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ )) 

for country _c_ , gender _g_ and age _xL_ + _x_ − 1 in year _tU_ + _τ, τ_ = 1 _,_ 2 _, . . ._ . The corresponding 100(1 − _γ_ )% predictive interval on ˆ _qc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ can be constructed as 

**==> picture [207 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

The random vector ( _εc, g, x, εc, g , εc, ε_ )[′] then follows a fourvariate normal distribution with mean (0 _,_ 0 _,_ 0 _,_ 0)[′] and variance– covariance matrix 

**==> picture [143 x 45] intentionally omitted <==**

The variances _σi_[2][and][covariances] _[ σ][i][,][ j]_[for] _[i][,][ j]_[ =][0] _[, . . . ,]_[ 3][and] _[j][ >][i]_ can be estimated by 

**==> picture [231 x 374] intentionally omitted <==**

To obtain a value of ln( ˜ _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ), we first calculate ln( _m_ ˆ _c, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ) with (2.1) and get _τ_ values of ( _εc, g, x, T_ + _t , εc, g, T_ + _t , εc, T_ + _t , εT_ + _t_ )[′] , _t_ = 1 _, . . . τ_ , from _N_ (04×1 _, Σ_[ˆ] 4×4), and then apply (4.1) to achieve a simulated value of ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ). 

## **5. Conclusions** 

This paper applies the hierarchical credibility theory with tree structures of three, four and five levels to modelling multipopulation mortality rates. The five-level tree structure from the 

bottom to the top is ‘‘year _t_ ’’, ‘‘age _x_ ’’, ‘‘gender _g_ ’’, ‘‘country _c_ ’’ and ‘‘multi-country’’, and the four-level tree structure is ‘‘year _t_ ’’, ‘‘age _x_ ’’, ‘‘gender _g_ ’’ and ‘‘country _c_ ’’. The hierarchical credibility mortality models are fitted with male and female mortality data of three developed countries (the US, the UK, and Japan) from the Human Mortality Database for an age span 20–84 and a series of fitting year spans. The classical Lee–Carter model and its three extensions for multiple populations (joint- _k_ , co-integrated and augmented common factor) are also fitted with the same data set for comparisons. 

The formula for _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1, the hierarchical credibility estimate of the decrement over [ _T , T_ + 1] in the logarithm of central death rate for country _c_ , gender _g_ and age _x_ , under a fivelevel hierarchical structure for the special case ( _wc, g, x, t_ = 1 for all countries _c_ , genders _g_ , ages _x_ , and years _t_ ) is a credibilityfactor-weighted average of _Y c, g, x,_ •, _Y c, g,_ • _,_ •, _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • and _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ •, the average annual decrements of the age, gender, country and multi-country time series, {ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _t_ )}, {ln( _mc, g,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ )}, {ln( _mc,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ )} and {ln( _m_ • _,_ • _,_ • _, tL_ + _t_ )}, for levels 1–4. For the hierarchical mortality model, we also adopt the expanding window (EW) and moving window (MW) strategies proposed by Tsai and Lin (2017a,b) to forecast mortality rates for two or more years. Under the EW ˆstrategy, the hierarchical credibility estimate _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ + _τ_ = _Yc, g, x, T_ +1 for _τ_ = 2 _,_ 3 _, . . ._ . Thus, ln( ˆ _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ + _τ_ ) is a linear function of _τ_ with slope _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 and intercept ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tU_ ). 

The forecasting performance is measured by the MAPE resulting from a single fitting year span. Based on the figures displayed in Section 3, we conclude that models have larger MAPEs as the forecasting year span gets wider. Since we do not know which fitting year span will produce the lowest MAPE, and actually the MAPE varies largely in the fitting year span, we rank the models according to AMAPE, the average of MAPEs over all the fitting year spans. According to ‘‘Avg 6’’ in Tables 2–4, we conclude that the hierarchical credibility model with more levels overall yields better prediction, which means that modelling mortality rates for multiple countries together with a five-level hierarchical tree structure can produce overall more accurate prediction than modelling those for a single population separately with a three-level hierarchical tree structure. However, applying the Lee–Carter model’s three extensions (JoK, CoI and ACF) to two (LC2) or six (LC6) populations does not necessarily produce more accurate prediction than applying the classical Lee–Carter model to a single population (LC1). Moreover, regardless of 10-, 20- or 30-year forecasting year span, the three/four/five-level hierarchical credibility models overall outperform the classical Lee–Carter model and its three extensions. 

The proposed model contributes to the literature of multipopulation mortality modelling by incorporating the hierarchical credibility theory, which is widely used in property and casualty insurance, to model multi-population mortality rates. The model is convenient to implement, and can be applied to a hierarchical tree of any arbitrary level to fit a data set. It is a generalization of the credibility mortality model proposed by Tsai and Lin (2017b), which can be considered as having a three-level tree structure. The mortality rates predicted from the hierarchical credibility mortality model for multiple populations can be further used to construct a mortality index for more accurately pricing mortality-indexed securities. 

## **Acknowledgements** 

The authors would like to thank the referees for their valuable comments and suggestions. Support from the Canadian Institute of Actuaries is gratefully acknowledged. 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

49 

## **Appendix A. Lee–Carter model and its three extensions for multiple populations** 

## _A.1. Independent Lee–Carter model_ 

Lee and Carter (1992) introduced the famous Lee–Carter model to forecast mortality rates. It models the natural logarithm of the central death rate using a bilinear function of two age-specific factors and one time-varying factor. The model for a specific population _i_ is presented as follows: 

**==> picture [144 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

where _αi, x_ is the average age-specific mortality factor at age _x_ for population _i_ , _ki, t_ is the index of the mortality level in year _t_ for population _i_ , _βi, x_ is the age-specific reaction to _ki, t_ at age _x_ for population _i_ , and the model errors for population _i_ , _εi, x, t_ , _t_ = _tL, . . . , tU_ , capturing the age-specific effects not reflected in the model, are assumed independent and identically distributed. 

The independent Lee–Carter model is subject to two constraints,[∑] _[t] t[U]_ = _tL[k][i][,][ t]_[=][0][and][∑] _[x] x[U]_ = _xL[β][i][,][ x]_[=][1.][The][first][constraint] leads the estimate of _αi, x_ to 

**==> picture [160 x 25] intentionally omitted <==**

and the second constraint gives the estimate of _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ as 

**==> picture [173 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

Finally, to get _β_[ˆ] _i, x_ , we regress [ln( _mi, x, t_ ) −ˆ _αi, x_ ] on _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ without the constant term for each age _x_ . 

The time-varying index _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ is the key to project future mortality rates. Lee and Carter (1992) suggested to model the timevaryingˆ index _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ by a random walk with drift _θi_ , that is, _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ = _ki, t_ −1 + _θi_ + _ϵi, t_ , where the time trend errors _ϵi, t , t_ = _tL, . . . , tU_ , are assumed to follow an independent and identically distributed, and independent of the model errors _εi, x, t_ . The assumption above implies that ( _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ − _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ −1) are independent and identically distributed for all _t_ , and the parameter _θi_ can be estimated by 

**==> picture [181 x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

The natural logarithm of the predicted central death rate for age _x_ in year _tU_ + _τ_ and population _i_ is forecasted by 

**==> picture [252 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

aˆ linear function of _τ_ withˆ interceptˆ ln(ˆ ˆ _mi, x, tU_ ) and slope ( _β_[ˆ] _i, x_ × _θi_ ), where ln( _m_ ˆ _i, x, tU_ ) = _αi, x_ + _βi, x_ × _ki, tU_ . Then, the projected central death rate is given by 

**==> picture [178 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

and the predicted one-year death rate for age _x_ in year _tU_ + _τ_ and population _i_ is given as 

**==> picture [219 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

## _A.2. Joint-k Lee–Carter model_ 

Carter and Lee (1992) proposed the joint- _k_ model to govern the co-movements among the mortality rates for multiple populations. The joint- _k_ model is constructed in the same way as the independent Lee–Carter model except that the time-varying beindexrates,expressedln( _ki, tmi_ = _, x, t_ as), _kt_ ,for _i_ =lives1 _, . . . ,_ aged _r_ . _x_ Thein yearlogarithm _t_ and populationof central death _i_ can 

**==> picture [189 x 22] intentionally omitted <==**

whereforfor populationpopulation _αi, x_ is the _ii_ ,, _kβ_ average _ti, x_ is isthethecommonage-specificage-specificindexmortalityreactionof the factormortalityto _kt_ atat ageagelevel _xx_ intheyearage-specific _t_ , and theeffectsmodelnoterrorsreflected _εi, x, t_ in, _t_ the= model, _tL, . . . , t_ are _U_ , capturingassumed independent and identically distributed. 

There are two constraints[∑] _[t] t[U]_ = _tL[k][t]_[=][0 and][ ∑] _[r] i_ =1 ∑ _xxU_ = _xL[β][i][,][ x]_[=] 1 for the joint- _k_ Lee–Carter model. The first constraint[∑] _[t] t[U]_ = _tL[k][t]_[=] ˆ 0 gives _αi, x_ =[∑] _[t] t[U]_ = _tL_[ln(] _[m][i][,][ x][,][ t]_[)] _[/]_[(] _[t][U]_[−] _[t][L]_[ +][ 1),][and][the][second][con-] straint[∑] _[r] i_ =1 ∑ _xxU_ = _xL[β][i][,][ x]_[=][1 implies] _[k]_[ˆ] _[t]_[=][ ∑] _[r] i_ =1 ∑ _xxU_ = _xL_[[][ln(] _[m][i][,][ x][,][ t]_[)][−] _α_ stant term for each ageindexˆ _i, x_ ], Finally, _k_[ˆ] _t_ is assumedwe regressto _x_ [ to obtainfollowln( _mi, x,_ a _t_ ) _β_ random −ˆ[ˆ] _i, xα_ . The common time-varying _i, x_ ] onwalk _k_[ˆ] _t_ withoutwith driftthe _θ_ con-for mortality prediction: _k_[ˆ] _t_ = _k_[ˆ] _t_ −1 + _θ_ + _ϵt_ , where the time trend errors _ϵ t_ , _t_ = _tL_ + 1 _, . . . , tU_ , are assumed independent and Thenidentically distributed, and independent of the model errorswe can estimate the drift parameter _θ_ with _εi, x, t_ . 

**==> picture [160 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

The logarithm of the projected central death rate for age _x_ in year _tU_ + _τ_ and population _i_ is given by 

**==> picture [229 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

a linear function of _τ_ with intercept ln( ˆ _mi, x, tU_ ) and slope ( _β_[ˆ] _i, x_ · _θ_[ˆ] ), where ln( ˆ _mi, x, tU_ ) = _α_ ˆ _i, x_ + _β_[ˆ] _i, x_ × _k_[ˆ] _tU_ . 

## _A.3. Co-integrated Lee–Carter model_ 

Unlike the joint- _k_ model, which assumes that all populations have the common time-varying index _k_ , the co-integrated model proposed by Li and Hardy (2011) assumes the time-varying index for population _i_ ( _i_ ⩾ 2) is linearly related to the time-varying index for population 1, the base population. Therefore, the timevarying index for population _i_ ( _i_ ⩾ 2) needs to be re-estimated in this model. 

**Stage I** : Apply the independent Lee–Carter model to popˆ ulation _i_ , and obtain the estimates _αi, x_ , _β_[ˆ] _i, x_ and _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ for _i_ = 1 _, . . . , r_ . 

**Stage II** : Assume there is a linear relationship plus an error termˆ _ei, t_ betweenˆ _k_[ˆ] 1 _, t_ and _k_[ˆ] _i, t_ for _i_ = 2 _, . . . , r_ . Specifically, _ki, t_ = _ai_ + _bi_ × _k_ 1 _, t_ + _ei, t , i_ = 2 _, . . . , r_ . Then we re-estimate ˆ _ki, t_ using the simple linear regression as _k_[ˆˆ] _i, t_ = _ai_ + _b_[ˆ] _i_ × _k_[ˆ] 1 _, t_ for _i_ = 2 _, . . . , r_ , implying that the estimate of the drift of the time-varying index for population _i_ , _θ_[ˆˆ] _i_ , is given by 

**==> picture [250 x 59] intentionally omitted <==**

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

50 

The logarithm of the forecasted central death rates for lives aged _x_ in year _tU_ + _τ_ and population _i_ is given as 

**==> picture [231 x 33] intentionally omitted <==**

a linear function of _τ_ with intercept ln( ˆ _mi, x, tU_ ) and slope ( _β_[ˆ] _i, x_ · _θ_[ˆˆ] _i_ ), where ln( ˆ _mi, x, tU_ ) = _α_ ˆ _i, x_ + _β_[ˆ] _i, x_ × _k_[ˆ] _i, tU_ . 

## _A.4. Augmented common factor Lee–Carter model_ 

To deal with the divergence in forecasting multi-population mortality rates over the long-term, Li and Lee (2005) proposed the augmented common factor model which not only considers the commonalities in the historical experience but also includes the individual differences in the trends. 

**Stage I** : The independent Lee–Carter model is modified to a common factor model by setting a common age-specific term _βx_ ( _βi, x_ = _βx_ ) and a uniform time-varying index _kt_ ( _ki, t_ = _kt_ ) for all populations as follows: 

**==> picture [134 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [182 x 9] intentionally omitted <==**

subject to two constraints,[∑] _[t] t[U]_ = _tL[k][t]_[=][0][and][ ∑] _[r] i_ =1 ∑ _xxU_ = _xL[w][i][ β][x]_[=] 1, where _wi_ , set to be 1 _/r_ in this paper, is the weight for population _i_ and[∑] _[r] i_ =1 _[w][i]_[=][1.][We][similarly][estimate] _[α][i][,][ x]_[by] _[α]_[ˆ] _[i][,][ x]_[=] ∑ _ttU_ = _tL_[ln(] _[m][i][,][ x][,][ t]_[)] _[/]_[(] _[t][U]_[−] _[t][L]_[+][1),][and] _[k][t]_[as] _[k]_[ˆ] _[t]_[=][∑] _[r] i_ =1 ∑ _xxU_ = _xL[w][i]_[×] [ln( _r mi, x, t_ ) −ˆ _αi, x_ ]. Then _β_[ˆ] _x_ can be similarly obtained by regressing ∑ _i_ =1 _[w][i]_[ × [][ln(] _[m][i][,][ x][,][ t]_[)][ −ˆ] _[α][i][,][ x]_[]][on] _[k]_[ˆ] _[t]_[without][the][constant][term][for] each age _x_ . **Stage II** : To include the individual differences in the trends, Li andmodelLeeto(2005get ) added a factor _βi_[′] _, x_[×] _[k]_[′] _i, t_[to][the][common][factor] 

**==> picture [183 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

with an extra constraint[∑] _[x] x[U]_ = _xL[β] i_[′] _, x_[=][1,][which][is][called][the] augmented _k_ ˆ[′] _i, t_[=][ ∑] _[x] x_ = _[U] xL_ common[[][ln(] _[m][i][,][ x][,][ t]_[)] factor[ −ˆ] _[α][i][,][ x]_ model.[ −ˆ] _[β][x]_[ × ˆ] The _[k][t]_[]][,][and] extra _[β]_[ˆ] _i_[′] _,_ constraint _x_[can][be][obtained] implies byconstantregressingterm [forln( _m_ each _i, x, t_ ) age−ˆ _αix, x_ . Similarly,− _β_[ˆ] _x_ × _k_[ˆ] _t_ we] onassume _k_[ˆ][′] _i, t_[without] that both[the] time trends _k_[ˆ] _t_ and _k_[ˆ][′] _i, t_[follow][a][random][walk][with][drifts] _[θ]_[and] _θk_ ˆ _i_[′] _i_[′] _,_[,] _t_ −[respectively.] 1[+] _[θ] i_[′][+] _[ϵ][i][,][ t]_[Specifically,][,][where][each] _[k]_[ˆ] _[t]_[of] =[the] _k_[ˆ] _t_ −[time] 1 + _θ_[trend] + _ϵt_[errors] , and _k_[ˆ] _[ϵ]_[′] _i[t] , t_[and] = assumed _ϵ_ distributed, _i, t , t_ = _tL_ to +andbe 1 _, . . . ,_ independent.all of _tU_ the, arethreeassumedAgain,errorindependenttheterms,drift _εi,_ parameters _x, t_ , _ϵ_ and _t_ andidentically _ϵiθ, t_ ,andare _θθ_ ˆ _ii_[′][′][=][can][(] _[k]_[ˆ][′] _i_[be] _, tU_[similarly][−ˆ] _[k] i_[′] _, tL_[)] _[/]_[(] _[t]_[estimated] _[U]_[−] _[t][L]_[).][by] _[θ]_[ˆ][=][(] _[k]_[ˆ] _[t] U_[−ˆ] _[k][t] L_[)] _[/]_[(] _[t][U]_[−] _[t][L]_[)][and] Finally, the logarithm of the predicted central death rates for lives aged _x_ in year _tU_ + _τ_ and population _i_ can be expressed as 

**==> picture [253 x 42] intentionally omitted <==**

> a linear function of _β_ ˆ _i_[′] _, x_[·] _[θ]_[ˆ] _i_[′][),][where][ln(] _[m]_[ ˆ] _τ[i][,]_ with intercept ln( _[ x][,][ t] U_[)][ =] _[α]_[ˆ] _[i][,][ x]_[ +] _[β]_[ˆ] _[x]_[ × ˆ] _m_ ˆ _i[k] , x[t] U, tU_[+] ) and slope ( _[β]_[ˆ] _i_[′] _, x_[× ˆ] _[k]_[′] _i, tU_[.] _β_[ˆ] _x_ · _θ_[ˆ] + **Appendix B. Estimation of structural parameters and credibility factors** 

## **Credibility estimates** _µ_ ˆ 3( _Ψc_ ), _µ_ ˆ 2( _Φc, g_ ), **and** _µ_ ˆ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) 

From Section 6.4 of Bühlmann and Gisler (2005), to obtain the hierarchical credibility estimate _µ_ ˆ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) for age _x_ , gender _g_ and 

country _c_ , we need to first find the credibility estimates _µ_ ˆ 3( _Ψc_ ) _µ_ andˆ 2( _Φµ_ ˆ _c,_ 2 _g_ ( _Φ_ ), _c_ and _, g_ ). _µ_ Allˆ 1( _Θ_ three _c, g, x_ hierarchical), given fromcredibilitytop to bottom,estimatescan be _µ_ ˆ 3(seen _Ψc_ ), (3) (2) (1) meanas weighted _µ_ ˆ 4 as follows:averages of _B_ s ( _B c_[,] _[B] c, g_[and] _[B] c, g, x_[)][and][the][overall] 

**==> picture [252 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [252 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [41 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [249 x 89] intentionally omitted <==**

where _α_ ˆ (1) _c, g, x_[,] _[α]_[ˆ] (2) _c, g_[and] _[α]_[ˆ] (3) _c_ are the corresponding credibility factors for levels one, two and three, respectively. The expressions for _B_ (1) _c, g, x_[,] _[B]_ (2) _c, g_[and] _[B]_ (3) _c_[,][the][credibility][factors][(] _[α]_[ˆ] (1) _c, g, x_[,] _[α]_[ˆ] (2) _c, g_[and] _α_ ˆ (3) _c_[),][and] _[µ]_[ˆ] 4[,][by][Theorem][6.4][of][Bühlmann][and][Gisler][(][2005][),][are] given in Table B.1. 

## **Estimation of the structural parameters** 

We observe from Table B.1 that 

- _T_ 

- • _B_ (1) _c, g, x_[=] ∑ _wc,_ (1) _g, x, t_ · _Yc, g, x, t_ for level 1 is an exposure- _t_ =1 _wc, g, x_ 

- unit-weighted average of _Yc, g, x, t_ s at level 0 over all years _t_ under age _x_ , gender _g_ and country _c_ with the weight [ _wc, g, x, t /wc_ (1) _, g, x_[]][,][where] _[w] c_ (1) _, g, x_[is][the][sum][of][the][level-zero] exposure units _wc, g, x, t_ for _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ . _X_ ˆ (1) 

- • _B_ (2) _c, g_[=] ∑ _α c,_ (2) _g, x_ · _B_[(1)] _c, g, x_[for][level][2][is][a][credibility-factor-] _x_ =1 _wc, g_ (1) 

- weighted average of _B c, g, x_[s][at][level][1][over][all][ages] _[x]_[under] gender _g_ and country _c_ with weight [ˆ _α_ (1) _c, g, x[/w] c_ (2) _, g_[]][,][where] _wc_ (2) _, g_[is the sum of the level-one credibility factors] _[α]_[ˆ] (1) _c, g, x_[for] _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ ; since 

**==> picture [161 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

it is also a weighted average of _Yc, g, x, t_ s at levels 0–1 over all ages _x_ and years _t_ under gender _g_ and country _c_ . 

**==> picture [240 x 74] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [198 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

it is also a weighted average of _Yc, g, x, t_ s at levels 0–2 over all genders _g_ , ages _x_ and years _t_ under country _c_ . 

51 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

**Table B.1** 

Formulae for _B_ (1) _c, g, x_[,] _[B]_ (2) _c, g_[,] _[B]_ (3) _c_[,] _[α]_[ˆ] (1) _c, g, x_[,] _[α]_[ˆ] (2) _c, g_[,] _[α]_[ˆ] (3) _c_ and _µ_ ˆ 4. 

|_B_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_ =<br>_T_<br>∑<br>_t_=1|_wc, g, x, t_<br>_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>·_Yc, g, x, t_<br>_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_ =<br>_T_<br>∑<br>_t_=1<br>_wc, g, x, t_<br>ˆ_α_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_|=|_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_ · ˆ_σ_2<br>1<br>_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_ · ˆ_σ_2<br>1 + ˆ_σ_2<br>0|
|---|---|---|---|
|_B_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ =<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>ˆ_α_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_<br>·_B_(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ =<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>ˆ_α_(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>ˆ_α_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ =|||_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ · ˆ_σ_2<br>2<br>_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ · ˆ_σ_2<br>2 + ˆ_σ_2<br>1|
|_B_<br>(3)<br>_c_ =<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>ˆ_α_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_<br>_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>·_B_(2)<br>_c, g_<br>_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>=<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>ˆ_α_(2)<br>_c, g_<br>ˆ_α_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>=|||_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>· ˆ_σ_ 2<br>3<br><br>(3)<br>_c_<br>· ˆ_σ_ 2<br>3 + ˆ_σ_2<br>2|
|||_w_||
|ˆ_µ_4 =<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>ˆ_α_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>_w_(4) ·_B_(3)<br>_c_<br>_w_(4) =<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>ˆ_α_(3)<br>_c_||||



> _C_ ˆ (3) ˆ _α c_ • _µ_ 4 = ∑ _w_[(4)][·] _[B]_[(3)] _c_ for level 4 is a credibility-factor- _c_ =1 

(3) weighted average of _B c_[s at level 3 over all countries] _[ c]_[with] weight [ˆ _αc_ (3) _[/w]_[(4)][]][,][where] _[w]_[(4)][is][the][sum][of][the][level-three] credibility factors _α_ ˆ (3) _c_ for _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ ; moreover, 

**==> picture [231 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

is also a weighted average of _Yc, g, x, t_ s at levels 0–3 over all countries _c_ , genders _g_ , ages _x_ and years _t_ . 

Since _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) = _E_ ( _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ ), _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ ) = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Φc, g_ ], _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ ) = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Ψc_ ], and _µ_ 4 = _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ ], we have the following interpretations for Eqs. (B.1)–(B.4). 

- ˆ 

- • (B.1): the estimate _E_[ˆ] [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Ψc_ ] (= _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ )) is a level(3) 

- three-credibility-factor-weighted average of _Bc_ (a weighted sample _t_ at levels 0–2 under countrymean of _Yc, g, x, t_ s for _c_ all) andgenders _µ_ ˆ 4 (a weighted average _g_ , ages _x_ and years of _Yc, g, x, t_ s for all years _t_ , ages _x_ , genders _g_ and countries _c_ at levels 0–3 for estimating the common mean _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ ]). 

- ˆ 

- • (B.2): the estimate _E_[ˆ] [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Φc, g_ ] (= _µ_ 2( _Φc, g_ )) is a leveltwo-credibility-factor-weighted average of _B_ (2) _c, g_[(a][weighted] sample mean of _Yc, g, x, t_ s for all ages _x_ and yearsˆ _t_ at levels _E_ ˆ [ _Yc_ 0–1 _, g, x, t_ under| _Ψc_ ], the estimate of the common conditional meangender _g_ and country _c_ ) and _µ_ 3( _Ψc_ ) (= of _Yc, g, x, t_ for all years _t_ , ages _x_ and genders _g_ at levels 0–2 under country _c_ at level 3 given _Ψc_ ). 

- ˆ 

- • (B.3): the estimate _E_[ˆ] [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ ] (= _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ )) is a (1) 

- level-one-credibility-factor-weighted average of _Bc, g, x_[(a] weighted sample mean of _Yc, g, x, t_ s for all yearsˆ _t_ at level 0 _E_ underˆ [ _Yc, g, x_ age _, t_ | _Φcx,_ , _g_ ]gender, the estimate _g_ and countryof the common _c_ ) and _µ_ conditional2( _Φc, g_ ) (= mean of _Yc, g, x, t_ for all years _t_ and ages _x_ at levels 0–1 under gender _g_ and country _c_ at levels 2–3 given _Φc, g_ ). 

- ˆ 

- • (B.4): the estimate _E_[ˆ] [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ ] (= _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ )) is also a (1) (2) (3) ˆ 

- weighted average of _Bc, g, x_[,] _[B] c, g_[,] _[B] c_ and _µ_ 4 (four weighted sample means of _Yc, g, x, t_ s for levels 1–4, respectively). 

the estimatesTo obtain the _σ_ ˆ0[2][,] credibility _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 1[,] _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 2[and] estimate _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 3[. The estimation of] _µ_ ˆ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) in _[ σ]_ (B.4)[ 2] 0[,] _[ σ]_ ,[ 2] 1we[,] _[ σ]_[ 2] 2need[and] _σ_ 3[2][is][given][in][Table][B.2][(refer][to][Section][6.6][of][Bühlmann][and] Gislerˆ (2) (2005) for the detailed estimation). It is possible that _T_[ˆ] _c_ (1) _, g_[,] _Tc_ or _T_[ˆ][(3)] in Table B.2 is negative due to a subtraction. In this case, we customarily set it to zero. For a four-level tree structure, we can set _α_ ˆ (3) _c_ = 1 in (B.4) and do not need to calculate _µ_ ˆ 4 and _w_[(4)] in Table B.1. Similarly, to obtain the corresponding formula (B.4) for a three-level tree structure which is the BühlmannStraub credibility model, we can let _α_ ˆ (3) _c_ = _α_ ˆ (2) _c, g_[=][1][and][it][is] (3) (3) not required to calculate _B c_[,] _[ w] c_[,] _[µ]_[ˆ] 4[and] _[ w]_[(4)][.] 

It is obvious that the tree structure of the hierarchical credibility model covers that of the Bühlmann-Straub credibility model, which can be obtained by applying a three-level tree structure with only levels 0–2 in Fig. 2 for a specific population of country _c_ and gender _g_ . Therefore, the five-level hierarchical credibility model is a generalization of the Bühlmann-Straub credibility model. Given a specific population of country _c_ and gender _g_ for a three-level hierarchical tree structure, the Bühlmann-Straub credibility model reduces to the Bühlmann one if we further set _wc, g, x, t_ = 1 for _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ . 

Next, we give a special case where all the exposure units _wc, g, x, t_ s are set to 1 (equal exposure units). We will use this special case for our hierarchical credibility mortality model. 

## **A special case** 

If _wc, g, x, t_ = 1 for all _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ , _g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ , _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ , and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , then the quantities in Tables B.1 and B.2 simplify to those in Tables B.3 and B.4. Moreover, the (independentcredibility factorsof country, _α_ ˆ (1) _c, g, x_[,] gender _[α]_[ˆ] (2) _c, g_[and] and age _[α]_[ˆ] (3) _c_ ) becomeones _α_ ˆ[(1)] ,subscript-free _α_ ˆ[(2)] and _α_ ˆ[(3)] , and _B_ (1) _c, g, x_[,] _[B]_ (2) _c, g_[,] _[B]_ (3) _c_[,][and] _[µ]_[ˆ] 4[simplify][to] _Y c, g, x,_ •, _Y c, g,_ • _,_ •, _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • and _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ •, respectively. Note that 

- _Y c, g, x,_ • (called the age sample mean) for level 1 is the average of _Yc, g, x, t_ s at level 0 for _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ , or the average of all entries _Yc, g, x, t_ s ( _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ ) in a 1 × _T_ row vector, for age _x_ under gender _g_ and country _c_ ; 

- _Y c, g,_ • _,_ • (called the gender sample mean) for level 2 is the average of _Y c, g, x,_ • at level 1 for _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ , or the average of all entries _Yc, g, x, t_ s ( _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ ) in an ( _X_ × _T_ ) rectangle, for gender _g_ under country _c_ , 

- _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (called the country sample mean) for level 3 is the average of _Y c, g,_ • _,_ • at level 2 for _g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ , or the average of all entries _Yc, g, x, t_ s ( _g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ , _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ , and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ ) in a ( _G_ × _X_ × _T_ ) cuboid for country _c_ ; and 

- _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (called the multi-country sample mean) for level 4 is the average of _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • at level 3 for _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ , or the average of all entries _Yc, g, x, t_ s ( _c_ = 1 _, . . . , C_ , _g_ = 1 _, . . . , G_ , _x_ = 1 _, . . . , X_ , and _t_ = 1 _, . . . , T_ ) in a ( _C_ × _G_ × _X_ × _T_ ) matrix or in _C_ ( _G_ × _X_ × _T_ ) cuboids for the multi-country population. 

Under this special case that all _wc, g, x, t_ = 1, (B.1), (B.2) and (B.4) turn out to 

**==> picture [252 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [252 x 40] intentionally omitted <==**

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

52 

**Table B.2** 

Hierarchical credibility estimation of _σ_ 0[2][,] _[σ]_[ 2] 1[,] _[σ]_[ 2] 2[and] _[σ]_[ 2] 3[.] 

|_σ_ 2<br>0 =|_E_[_σ_2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)]<br>_σ_ 2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)=_wc, g, x, t_ ·_Var_[_Yc, g, x, t_|_Θc, g, x_]|
|---|---|
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>0 =|1<br>_C_ ·_G_·_X_<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)<br>ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)<br>△=<br>1<br>_T_ −1<br>_T_<br>∑<br>_t_=1<br>_wc, g, x, t_ · [_Yc, g, x, t_ −_B_(1)<br>_c, g, x_]2|
|_σ_ 2<br>1 =|_E_{_Var_[_µ_1(_Θc, g, x_)|_Φc, g_]}<br>_z_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_ =<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>_w_(1)<br>_c, g, x_,<br>_B_<br>~~(~~1)<br>_c, g,_• =<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>_z_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_<br>·_B_(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>_c_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_ = _X_ −1<br>_X_<br>·<br>{<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>_z_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_<br>·<br>[<br>1−_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>_z_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_<br>]}−1|
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1 =|1<br>_C_ ·_G_<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>max[ˆ_T_ (1)<br>_c, g,_ 0]<br>ˆ_T_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_ = _c_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_ ·<br>{<br>_X_<br>_X_ −1<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>_z_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_<br>[<br>_B_(1)<br>_c, g, x_ −<br>_B_<br>~~(~~1)<br>_c, g,_•<br>]2<br>−<br>_X_<br>_z_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_<br>· ˆ_σ_ 2<br>0<br>}|
|_σ_ 2<br>2 =|_E_{_Var_[_µ_2(_Φc, g_)|_Ψc_]}<br>_z_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>=<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>_w_(2)<br>_c, g_,<br>_B_<br>~~(~~2)<br>_c,_• =<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_<br>_z_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>·_B_(2)<br>_c, g_<br>_c_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>= _G_−1<br>_G_<br>·<br>{<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_<br>_z_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>·<br>[<br>1−_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_<br>_z_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>]}−1|
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>2 =|1<br>_C_<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>max[ˆ_T_ (2)<br>_c ,_ 0]<br>ˆ_T_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>= _c_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>·<br>{<br>_G_<br>_G_−1<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_<br>_z_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>[<br>_B_(2)<br>_c, g_ −<br>_B_<br>~~(~~2)<br>_c,_•<br>]2<br>−<br>_G_<br>_z_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>· ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1<br>}|
|_σ_ 2<br>3 =|_Var_[_µ_3(_Ψc_)]<br>_z_(3) =<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_w_(3)<br>_c_ ,<br>_B_<br>~~(~~3)<br>•<br>=<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>_z_(3) ·_B_(3)<br>_c_<br>_c_(3) = _C_ −1<br>_C_<br>·<br>{<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>_z_(3) ·<br>[<br>1−_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>_z_(3)<br>]}−1|
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>3 =|max[ ˆ_T_(3)_,_ 0]<br>ˆ_T_ (3) = _c_(3) ·<br>{<br>_C_<br>_C_ −1<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>_z_(3)<br>[<br>_B_(3)<br>_c_<br>−<br>_B_<br>~~(~~3)<br>•<br>]2<br>−<br>_C_<br>_z_(3) · ˆ_σ_2<br>2<br>}|



|**Table B.3**<br>Formulae for _B_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_, _B_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_, _B_<br>(3)<br>_c_ , ˆ_α_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_, ˆ_α_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_, ˆ_α_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>and ˆ_µ_4 under all _wc, g, x, t_ = 1.|||
|---|---|---|
|_B_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_ = 1<br>_T_<br>_T_<br>∑<br>_t_=1<br>_Yc, g, x, t_<br>△=<br>_Y c, g, x,_•<br>_w_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_ = _T_<br>△=_w_(1)<br>ˆ_α_<br>(1)<br>_c, g, x_|=|_T_ · ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1<br>_T_ · ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1 + ˆ_σ_2<br>0<br>△= ˆ_α_(1)|
|_B_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ = 1<br>_X_<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>_B_(1)<br>_c, g, x_<br>△=<br>_Y c, g,_•_,_•<br>_w_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ = _X_ · ˆ_α_(1)<br>ˆ_α_<br>(2)<br>_c, g_ =|_X_|_X_ · ˆ_α_(1) · ˆ_σ_ 2<br>2<br> · ˆ_α_(1) · ˆ_σ_ 2<br>2 + ˆ_σ_2<br>1<br>△= ˆ_α_(2)|
|_B_<br>(3)<br>_c_ = 1<br>_G_<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>_B_(2)<br>_c, g_<br>△=<br>_Y c,_•_,_•_,_•<br>_w_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>= _G_· ˆ_α_(2)<br>ˆ_α_<br>(3)<br>_c_<br>=||_G_· ˆ_α_(2) · ˆ_σ_ 2<br>3<br>· ˆ_α_(2) · ˆ_σ_ 2<br>3 + ˆ_σ_2<br>2<br>△= ˆ_α_(3)|
||_G_||
|ˆ_µ_3 = 1<br>_C_<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_B_(3)<br>_c_<br>△=<br>_Y_•_,_•_,_•_,_•<br>_w_(4) = _C_ · ˆ_α_(3)|||



and 

**==> picture [252 x 55] intentionally omitted <==**

From (B.5)–(B.7), we observe that 

- (B.5): the credibility estimate _µ_ ˆ 3( _Ψc_ ) at level 3 for country _c_ is a weighted average of _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (the country sample mean) at level 3 and _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (the multi-country sample mean) at level 4; 

- (B.6): the credibility estimate _µ_ ˆ 2( _Φc, g_ ) at level 2 for country _c_ and gender _g_ is a weighted average of _Y c, g,_ • • (the gender sample mean) at level 2, _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (the country sample mean) at level 3, and _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (the multi-country sample mean) at level 4; and 

- (B.7): the credibility estimate _µ_ ˆ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) at level 1 for country _c_ , gender _g_ , and age _x_ is a weighted average of _Y c, g, x,_ • (the age sample mean) at level 1, _Y c, g,_ • _,_ • (the gender sample mean) at level 2, _Y c,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (the country sample mean) atlevellevel4. 3, and _Y_ • _,_ • _,_ • _,_ • (the multi-country sample mean) at 

Since _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) is defined as _E_ [ _Yc, g, x, t_ | _Θc, g, x_ ] (the conditional mean of _Yc, g, x, t_ at level 0 given the risk parameter _Θc, g, x_ at level 1 for country _c_ , gender _g_ , and age _x_ ) which is used to obtain the non-parametric hierarchical credibility estimate of the decrement in the logarithm of central death rate over [ _T , T_ + 1] for country _c_ , gender _g_ and age _x_ , we denoteˆ _Y_[ˆ] _c, g, x, T_ +1 _E_ (ˆ=[ _Yc_ ln( _, g,m_ ˆ _x, tc,_ | _gΘ, xcL,_ + _g,x x_ −]1 _,_ in _tL_ +(B.7) _T_ +1). − ln( _mc, g, xL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _T_ )) for _µ_ 1( _Θc, g, x_ ) = 

Next, we use subscripts ( _g, x, t_ ) for gender _g_ and age _x_ in year _t_ under a four-level hierarchical structure applied to a single country. The structural parameters for a four-level hierarchical tree can also be estimated from those for the five-level 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

53 

**Table B.4** 

Hierarchical credibility estimation of _σ_ 0[2][,] _[σ]_[ 2] 1[,] _[σ]_[ 2] 2[and] _[σ]_[ 2] 3[under][all] _[w][c][,][ g][,][ x][,][ t]_[=][1.] 

|_σ_ 2<br>0 =|_E_[_σ_2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)]<br>_σ_ 2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)= _Var_[_Yc, g, x, t_|_Θc, g, x_]||
|---|---|---|
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>0 =|1<br>_C_ ·_G_·_X_<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)<br>ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1 (_Θc, g, x_)<br>△=<br>1<br>_T_ −1<br>_T_<br>∑<br>_t_=1<br>[<br>_Yc, g, x, t_ −<br>_Y c, g, x,_•<br>]2||
|_σ_ 2<br>1 =|_E_{_Var_[_µ_1(_Θc, g, x_)|_Φc, g_]}<br>_z_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_ = _X_ ·_T_,<br>_B_<br>~~(~~1)<br>_c, g,_• =<br>_Y c, g,_•_,_•,<br>_c_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_ = 1||
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1 =|1<br>_C_ ·_G_<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>max[ˆ_T_ (1)<br>_c, g,_ 0]<br>ˆ_T_<br>(1)<br>_c, g_ =<br>1<br>_X_ −1<br>_X_<br>∑<br>_x_=1<br>[<br>_Y c, g, x,_•−<br>_Y c, g,_•_,_•<br>]2<br>−ˆ_σ_2<br>0<br>_T_||
|_σ_ 2<br>2 =|_E_{_Var_[_µ_2(_Φc, g_)|_Ψc_]}<br>_z_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>= _G_·_X_ · ˆ_α_(1),<br>_B_<br>~~(~~2)<br>_c,_• =<br>_Y c,_•_,_•_,_•,<br>_c_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>= 1||
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>2 =|1<br>_C_<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>max[ˆ_T_ (2)<br>_c ,_ 0]<br>ˆ_T_<br>(2)<br>_c_<br>=<br>1<br>_G_−1<br>_G_<br>∑<br>_g_=1<br>[<br>_Y c, g,_•_,_•−<br>_Y c,_•_,_•_,_•<br>]2<br>−<br>[ ˆ_σ_2<br>1<br>_X_ +<br>ˆ_σ_ 2<br>0<br>_X_ ·_T_<br>]||
|_σ_ 2<br>3 =|_Var_[_µ_3(_Ψc_)]<br>_z_(3) = _C_ ·_G_· ˆ_α_(2),<br>_B_<br>~~(~~3)<br>•<br>=<br>_Y_•_,_•_,_•_,_•,<br>_c_(3) = 1||
|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>3 =|max[ ˆ_T_(3)_,_ 0]<br>ˆ_T_ (3) =<br>1<br>_C_ −1<br>_C_<br>∑<br>_c_=1<br>[<br>_Y c,_•_,_•_,_•−<br>_Y_•_,_•_,_•_,_•<br>]2<br>−<br>[ ˆ_σ_2<br>2<br>_G_ +<br>ˆ_σ_ 2<br>1<br>_G_·_X_ +|ˆ_σ_ 2<br>0<br>_G_·_X_ ·_T_<br>]|



hierarchical tree by setting _C_ = 1 (for a specific country) ˆ ˆ and _α_[(3)] = 1, and we do not need to calculate _T_[ˆ][(3)] and _σ_ 3[2] in Table B.4. Then the hierarchical credibility estimate of the decrement in the logarithm of central death rate over [ _T , T_ + 1] for gender _g_ and age _x_ under the special case, _Y_[ˆ] _g, x, T_ +1 = _E_ ln(ˆ [ _Ym_ ˆ _g,g x,, x tL_ |+ _Θx_ − _g,_ 1 _x, t_ ] = _L_ + _T_ + _µ_ ˆ11)( − _Θg_ ln( _, x_ )), _m_ is _g, x_ given _L_ + _x_ −1 _, t_ by _L_ + _T_ ) (we denote _Y_[ˆ] _g, x, T_ +1 for 

**==> picture [252 x 58] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [199 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

Note that _σ_ ˆ0[2][,] _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 1[and] _[σ]_[ˆ] 2[ 2][in][the][expressions][for] _[α]_[ˆ][(1)][and] _[α]_[ˆ][(2)][(see] Tables B.3 and B.4) become 

**==> picture [218 x 96] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [207 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

If _C_ = _G_ = 1 (mortality data are applied to a specific population of gender _g_ and country _c_ ), the five-level hierarchical structure reduces to three-level one, and the non-parametric classical Bühlmann credibility model recovers. Then the nonparametric Bühlmann credibility estimate of the decrement in theˆ logarithm of central death rate for age _x_ over [ _T , T_ ˆ+ 1], _Yx, T_ +1 = ln( ˆ _mxL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _T_ +1) − ln( _mxL_ + _x_ −1 _, tL_ + _T_ ) (we denote _Yx, T_ +1 ˆ for _x_ in _E_[ˆ] year[ _Yx, t_ | _tΘ_ under _x_ ] = a _µ_ three-level1( _Θx_ ); herehierarchicalwe use subscriptsstructure,( _x,_ and _t_ ) forignoreage subscriptsˆ ( _c, g_ ˆ ) for simplifying notations), can be obtained by setting _α_[(2)] = _α_[(3)] = 1 in (B.7) as 

**==> picture [252 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

where _Y x,_ • = _T_ 1 ∑ _Tt_ =1 _[Y][x][,][ t]_[and] _[µ]_[ˆ][2][=] _Y_ • _,_ • = _X_ 1 ∑ _Xx_ =1 _Y x,_ • = the _X_ 1· _T_ ∑expression _Xx_ =1 ∑ _Tt_ =1 for _[Y][x][,][ t] α_[.] ˆ[(1)][Note] (see[that] Table _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 0 B.3[and] ) become _[σ]_[ˆ][ 2] 1[(given][in][Table][B.4][)][in] 

**==> picture [157 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

and _σ_ ˆ1[2][=][max][[ˆ] _[T]_[ (1)] _[,]_[ 0][]][,][where] 

**==> picture [152 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

see also Tsai and Lin (2017b) and Klugman et al. (2012). 

## **References** 

Bühlmann, H., Gisler, A., 2005. A Course in Credibility Theory and Its Applications. Springer, Netherlands. Cairns, A.J.G., Blake, D., Dowd, K., 2006. A two-factor model for stochastic mortality with parameter uncertainty: theory and calibration. J. Risk Insurance 73, 687–718. 

- Cairns, A.J.G., Blake, D., Dowd, K., Coughlan, G.D., Epstein, D., Ong, A., Balevich, I., 2009. A quantitative comparison of stochastic mortality models using data from England and Wales and the United States. N. Am. Actuar. J. 13 (1), 1–35. 

- Cairns, A.J.G., Blake, D., Dowd, K., Coughlan, G.D., Khalaf-Allah, M., 2011. Bayesian stochastic mortality modelling for two populations. Astin Bull. 41 (1), 29–59. 

Carter, L.R., Lee, R.D., 1992. Forecasting demographic components: Modeling and 

forecasting U.S. sex differentials in mortality. Int. J. Forecast. 8 (3), 393–411. 

- Chen, H., MacMinn, R., Sun, T., 2015. Multi-population mortality models: a factor copula approach. Insurance Math. Econom. 63, 135–146. 

- Enchev, V., Kleinow, T., Cairns, A.J.G., 2016. Multi-population mortality models: fitting, forecasting and comparisons. Scand. Actuar. J. 2016, 1–24. 

- Jewell, W.S., 1975. The use of collateral data in credibility theory: a hierarchical model. Research Memorandum 75-24, International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria. 

- Klugman, S.A., Panjer, H.H., Willmot, G.E., 2012. Loss Models: From Data To Decisions, fourth ed. John Wiley & Sons, New York. 

- Lee, R.D., Carter, L.R., 1992. Modelling and forecasting U.S. mortality. J. Amer. Statist. Assoc. 87, 659–671. 

- Li, J.S.H., Chan, W.S., Zhou, R., 2017. Semicoherent multipopulation mortality modelling: the impact on longevity risk securitization. J. Risk Insurance 84, 1025–1065. 

- Li, J.S.H., Hardy, M.R., 2011. Measuring basis risk in longevity hedges. N. Am. Actuar. J. 15 (2), 177–200. 

- Li, N., Lee, R.D., 2005. Coherent mortality forecasts for a group of populations: An extension of the Lee–Carter method. Demography 42 (3), 575–594. 

- Li, J.S.H., Zhou, R., Hardy, M., 2015. A step-by-step guide to building twopopulation stochastic mortality models. Insurance Math. Econom. 63, 121–134. 

_C.C.-L. Tsai and A.D. Wu / Insurance: Mathematics and Economics 91 (2020) 37–54_ 

54 

Lin, T., Wang, C.W., Tsai, C.C.L., 2015. Age-specific copula-AR-GARCH mortality models. Insurance Math. Econom. 61, 110–124. Norberg, R., 1986. Hierarchical credibility: analysis of a random effect linear model with nested classification. Scand. Actuar. J. 1986 (3–4), 204–222. 

- Sundt, B., 1979. A hierarchical credibility regression model. Scand. Actuar. J. 1979 (2–3), 107–114. 

- Sundt, B., 1980. A multi-level hierarchical credibility regression model. Scand. Actuar. J. 1980 (1), 25–32. 

- Tsai, C.C.L., Lin, T., 2017a. Incorporating Bühlmann credibility approach to improving mortality forecasting. Scand. Actuar. J. 2017, 419–440. 

- Tsai, C.C.L., Lin, T., 2017b. A Bühlmann credibility approach to modelling mortality rates. N. Am. Actuar. J. 21 (2), 204–227. 

- Tsai, C.C.L., Wu, A.D., 2020. Bühlmann credibility-based approaches to modeling mortality rates for multiple populations. N. Am. Actuar. J. 24 (1), (in press). 

- Tsai, C.C.L., Yang, S., 2015. A linear regression approach to modelling mortality rates of different forms. N. Am. Actuar. J. 19 (1), 1–23. 

- Tsai, C.C.L., Zhang, Y., 2019. A multi-dimensional Bühlmann credibility approach to modeling multi-population mortality rates. Scand. Actuar. J. 2019 (5), 406–431. 

- Wang, Z., Li, J.S.H., 2016. A DCC-GARCH multi-population mortality model and its applications to pricing catastrophic mortality bonds. Finance Res. Lett. 16, 103–111. 

- Wang, C.W., Yang, S.S., Huang, H.C., 2015. Modeling multi-country mortality dependence and its application in pricing survivor index swaps - a dynamic copula approach. Insurance Math. Econom. 63, 30–39. 

