## Machine Learning in the Corporate Bond Market and Beyond: A New Classifier[$] 

Mark Fedenia[a] , Tavy Ronen[b] , Seunghan Nam[c] 

> _aUniversity of Wisconsin-Madison_ 

> _bRutgers Business School_ 

> _cNew York Institute of Technology_ 

## **Abstract** 

Trade signing algorithms that rely on quote data, tick data or both have been used extensively to assign a trade as either a buy or a sell. Leveraging the availability of a large panel of signed trade data in the corporate bond market, we explore machine learning methods to uncover a new trade signing model that improves upon standard trade classification methods in both the bond and equity markets. We show that both the trading and information environment at the time of the trade critically affect the accuracy of existing trade classification rules in general, and also illustrate the importance of optimizing the feature set in correctly classifying trade direction. Importantly, our approach and the Random Forest algorithm we propose can be used in markets both with and without pre-trade transparency. 

_Keywords:_ Machine Learning, Trade Direction Classifiers, Trade Signing, Corporate Bonds, Equity Market, Big Data, JEL Classification:G0 

> $The authors are grateful for comments by Bidisha Chakrabarty, Edith Hotchkiss, Pamela Moulton, Maureen O’Hara, Or Shachar, Andrea Tamoni, Clara Vega, participants of the Women in Market Microstructure (WIMM) Early Ideas Seminar Series and the RBS Finance Brownbag Series. 

_June 8, 2021_ 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

## **1. Introduction** 

The ability to determine whether a trade is buyer or seller initiated is central to our understanding of market dynamics and security price behavior, such as informational efficiency, market quality, price impact, order dynamics, dealer behavior, spreads and round-trip costs. The trade initiator is generally not recorded in most intraday transaction databases forcing empirical researchers to infer trade direction from local price and quote behavior. The earliest trade initiator classifiers are the tick rule (TR) and the quote rule (QR) (see (Hasbrouck (1988)) and (Blume et al. (1989)). Lee and Ready (1991) combined these two rules to construct a popular method for classifying trades (henceforth LR). Several other trade direction classifiers have been proposed, the most noteworthy being (Easley et al. (2016)) bulk volume classifier (BVC). The efficacy of these rules has been hotly debated, and their relative accuracy in different markets has been studied extensively.[1] 

In the wake of the rapidly evolving technological changes implemented in securities markets as well as the subsequent surge in trading venues, electronic platforms, reporting and dissemination systems, the volume, and frequency of trades has skyrocketed, thereby creating an environment in which the accuracy of current classification algorithms remains an important concern for researchers, market participants and regulators alike. The technology behind the changes in securities markets has been accompanied by new methodologies for analyzing voluminous transactions data. These innovations provide an opportunity to better understand the accuracy of existing classifiers which may lead to potentially better classification algorithms. 

This study revisits the issue of identifying trade direction, and implements machine learning methods to offer new alternatives to the commonly used classification schemes. The availability of buy/sell indicators recently introduced as part of the TRACE Enhanced Historical Data for corporate bonds offers an unexploited opportunity to employ machine learning 

> 1Table 1 provides a chronological description of the most commonly used classifiers and their comparative performance, as evidenced in extant literature. 

1 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

classification models. The TRACE dataset which contains more features than have generally been considered in extant models is not only useful in testing existing trade rules, but provides a suitable environment in which to develop richer models to more accurately sign trades. The specific features of the corporate bond market can be used to uncover factors that critically affect the accuracy of existing trade classification rules. We utilize the wide cross-section of bond trading activity, trade size differences, and bond quality available in TRACE to determine how trade rules perform in different environments. We then apply what we learn in the bond market to trades in the equity market. 

There are other important advantages to analyzing classifiers in this dataset. First, the equity market is highly fragmented across trading platforms and trades occur in a low-latency environment. Easley et al. (2016) point out that it is difficult to assess the efficacy of tick-based and BVC rules in the equity market since trades on the consolidated tape are time-stamped when they are received at the securities information processor and not when they occurred in the market. Trades on the tape can be out of order, rendering rules that rely heavily on trade sequence accuracy problematic. In this context, the higher latency and lower market-venue fragmentation of the corporate bond market works in the researcher’s favor, particularly when searching for machine learning models which can best discover rules that require identification of the last trade. Additionally, due to signed data availability limitations, most data sets used to date to develop trade direction classifiers constitute a mere fraction of the TRACE dataset used in this study, which provides an extensive cross section of data with seemingly complete transaction history going back nearly two decades. 

Second, the lack of pre-trade transparency, while technically not an advantage, makes models we construct potentially more useful for other markets with and without pre-trade transparency. Finally we study bond transactions around information events adding to the literature on discerning informativeness. The accuracy of trade direction rules depends upon the information environment and the price discovery process (Easley et al. (2016)). Traders place orders based on information they possess regarding the security value and order flow. 

2 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

High-yield bonds have been shown to exhibit rapid adjustment to the surprise component of firm-specific information releases (Hotchkiss and Ronen (2002) and Ronen and Zhou (2013)).[2] Our extensive dataset (17.5 years) allows us to examine sensitivity to information directly by constructing tests of efficacy around earnings announcements. For our model and existing models we can determine if the trade initiator is more easily detectable when trades are more informative. 

We show that a trade classification model estimated by machine learning is on par with current rules in most cases, and superior in some others. Our inquiry is more ambitious than simply improving trade-signing accuracy. While machine learning models have a reputation for being “black boxes,” we interpret to the extent possible how and why new features improve classification accuracy. Our study reveals that machine learning models are generally not able to discover the TR or BVC without significant prompting by the researcher. Still, there is a benefit to machine learning models because unlike traditional measures the functional form of the classifier is not prespecified and the model trains on the the entire panel of trades rather than the local trading behavior of a single security. We find that machine learning models offer trade classification accuracy that at least matches and often exceeds the accuracy of the most commonly used models in the bond and stock markets. However, the better accuracy can only be achieved with the benefit of an historical dataset of signed trades, as these are needed to perform the supervised learning. 

We invoke a number of popular classification algorithms and construct several sets of features used to predict the classification. The Random Forest (RF) algorithm is found to be superior to a number of other machine learning choices as well as to traditional classifiers. Adding more inclusive feature sets improve classification accuracy. For example, the RF algorithm using a specific feature set is 8.3% more accurate than TR in the bond market. 

We find that both trading patterns and institutional features of the market affect trade 

> 2While Easley et al. (2016) show that the BVC can be used to discern informativeness of trade, data constraints dictate the reliance on the imbalance of buy and sell orders as a proxy for information arrival. They do not explicitly examine information events and the accuracy rates following information releases. 

3 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

signing accuracy. Accuracy tends to be better in more liquid bonds and for those bonds, the gap between our model and the tick rule widens further. This may either mean that classification systems break down when market and firm specific information changes in a fundamental way between trades, or that market participants place orders differently when more reliable order flow information is available.[3] Consistent with Ellis et al. (2000), Finucane (2000), Chakrabarty et al. (2007), and Chakrabarty et al. (2012) who find that trade direction classifier accuracy is generally lower for larger trades in the equity markets, we find that the accuracy for smaller trades seem to be higher than for larger ones. Patterns of information flow are also directly found to be drivers of accuracy. We conduct direct efficacy tests around earnings announcements and find that the algorithm’s accuracy degrades slightly when there is higher information uncertainty. The bulk version of RF is also shown to be superior to both BVC rule and the bulk version of TR, even after information events. We also examine how various trading characteristics and market structure (e.g. rating changes, trade frequency, time of day, and trade size) affect trade signing accuracy. 

Ultimately, we are interested in whether the machine learning algorithms are useful in other markets, including those that enjoy lower latency and those with pre-trade transparency. Using the inferences we glean from the bond market regarding model and feature choice, we examine the efficacy of an equity-trained machine learning model in our TotalView-ITCH sample of Nasdaq stocks trading in 2013 and find that it is on a par with both TR and LR. When we supplement our feature set with quotes for comparability with classifiers that employ order information, RF outperforms TR by 3.3% and LR by 3.6%. Notably, our finding in the TRACE data, that trade frequency is positively related to trade classifier accuracy, persists in the equity market, for all classifiers examined. We attribute the seemingly contrasting evidence in extant literature (Ellis et al. (2000) and Odders-White (2000)) to the difference in volume and speed in our more recent data and conclude that while trade sign predictor 

> 3More reliable order flow information is more recent information that occurs with greater frequency in a short amount of time prior to a potential trade. 

4 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

efficacy is generally maximized when the number of daily trades is high, several local efficacy maxima exist at lower ranges of trading frequency. 

One comparative advantage of the RF algorithm we propose for markets with pre-trade transparency is that it combines the strengths of LR and TR, but its incremental improvement in accuracy over LR and TR persists even at the highest ranges of trade frequency examined. Indeed, the positive correlation between the RF algorithm and trade frequency across all ranges renders it more suitable for today’s faster markets, particularly in light of recent papers on new trade classification algorithms (Easley et al. (2016), Panayides et al. (2019), Chakrabarty et al. (2015), and Carrion and Kolay (2021)), which call in to question the ability of traditional trade direction classifiers to achieve high accuracy rates as the number of trades per unit time increases. 

Our paper contributes to the market microstructure literature by examining the applicability of machine learning methods to market microstructure data. In particular, we contribute to the trade direction classification literature by introducing a machine learning model that outperforms traditional classifiers. Moreover, we illustrate the importance of optimizing the feature set in correctly classifying trade direction and provide new insights on the efficacy of trading rules in different market conditions. Beyond our desire to improve classification models, we investigate whether machine learning, a subset of artificial intelligence which taken literally implies non-human intelligence and learning, can “discover” models we already have at our disposal. We find that we cannot train a model only on the data used to compute existing classification rules without human intervention. At least for the algorithms we employ, it appears that machine learning must be paired with intuition provided by the financial economist to improve the accuracy of traditional estimation methods. 

The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In the next section we provide an extensive review of previous work on trade signing accuracy and a detailed discussion of our motivation for constructing a machine learning classifier. Section 3 describes the data and introduces our methodology. Section 4 presents our results from the bond market followed by 

5 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Section 5 where we examine the efficacy of our algorithm in the equity market. We conclude with discussion, limitations and future research directions. 

## **2. Background and Motivation** 

## _2.1. Trade Classification_ 

Despite rapid advancements in recent decades in pre-and post trade transparency for most major markets, databases rarely include buy/sell initiation indicators, and researchers have hence relied on trade classification algorithms to sign trades. Early classifiers include QR (Hasbrouck (1988) and Blume et al. (1989)), TR, and LR (Lee and Ready (1991)). More recently, BVC was proposed in Easley et al. (2012) and Easley et al. (2016), and modifications to existing rules have also been proposed in Ellis et al. (2000) and Panayides et al. (2019). 

Each of these classification algorithms has been extensively studied and shown to have varying degrees of efficacy. Table 1 provides a chronological description of the most commonly used classifiers and their comparative performance, as evidenced in extant literature. An early approach to trade classification is QR, which classifies trades as buyer (seller) initiated if the transaction occurs above (below) the midpoint of the bid/ask spread. The rationale for TR is based on basic microeconomic theory, and the data needed to operationalize it are readily available using only trade data. TR classifies a transaction as a buy initiated trade if the previous price is lower (uptick trade) than the transaction price and as a sell-initiated trade if the previous price is higher (downtick trade).[4] TR efficacy has been documented for several markets with different trading characteristics, with accuracy rates ranging from 62% to 83%. 

——————–Insert Table 1 here——————– 

The widely used LR combines QR and TR when quoted spreads are available. When trades occur at the quote midpoint, the algorithm uses TR and when trades occur outside the midpoint, it uses QR. Table 1 reports varying accuracy rates for LR in different data sets 

> 4If the current transaction price is the same as the previous price, the TR compares the current price to the nearest previous price that is not a zero tick trade. 

6 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

over the past few decades, and generally indicates higher accuracy rates than TR for most datasets examined prior to 1997 (ranging from to 73%-93%).[5] Studies examining more recent data have found more mixed results, with LR accuracy lower than TR rates in some cases, and ranging from 72.1%-93.57%. Ellis et al. (2000) attribute lower LR rates in recent data to high order submission and cancellation rates along with significant market fragmentation which render quote/trade matching less precise. 

BVC constitutes a robust alternative to traditional trade-level classification methods, particularly useful in low latency fragmented markets, where it is challenging to ensure that the exact sequencing of orders and trades are correctly reported. In using total volume and price changes within a block of trades to classify order flow into buying and selling volume, BVC has also been hailed in its ability to capture trade aggressors and informative trade flow (Panayides et al. (2019). BVC aggregates trades into volume, time or trade bars (intervals) and based upon the standardized price change between bars, classifies the fraction of buyer (and seller) initiated volume. Estimated buy-initiated volume for each bar, _V_[ˆ] _τ[B]_[,][is][defined][as] follows: 

**==> picture [125 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

and sell-initiated volume, _V_[ˆ] _τ[S]_[is][estimated][as] _[V][τ]_[-] _[V]_[ˆ] _τ[B]_[,][where] _[τ]_[is][the][bar,][based][on][either] volume, time, or trade count; _Pτ_ is the price at the end of bar _τ_ ; and _Z_ is the CDF based on the student’s t-distribution using the price difference and its standard deviation. Easley et al. (2016) examine the performance of BVC in one year of trades in three futures contracts (2010-2011) and find that BVC accuracy can be as high as 94.5%, but caution that efficacy could be lower in high latency markets. 

> 5See also (Asquith et al. (2010), Asquith et al. (2012); and Chakrabarty et al. (2012)) who examine LR for short sale trades, (Chakrabarty et al. (2007); Finucane (2000); and Odders-White (2000)) and Carrion and Kolay (2020), who analyze trade direction rule efficacy for stocks trading on ECN’s, and Aitken and Frino (1996) and Theissen (2001) who examine classifier efficacy in non U.S. markets. Also, adjustments to LR have been proposed in several studies such as Bessembinder (2003), Hendershott and Jones (2005), Peterson and Sirri (2003), Piwowar and Wei (2006), who propose omitting the 5 second LR quote-trade timing adjustment. Finally, Holden and Jacobsen (2014) show that trade signing (and other) algorithms using trade and quote matching require either fast trading adjustments or millisecond data. 

7 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Since BVC aggregates trading activity across volume, time or trade intervals (bars), it is not directly comparable to trade-based rules, and studies examining relative efficacy generally compute bulk versions of TR and LR. Chakrabarty et al. (2015) examine a sample of 300 stocks trading on NASDAQ from 3 months in 2011 using ITCH data and find that BVC cannot classify trade aggressors as accurately as Bulk LR and Bulk TR dependent on the bar types and lengths (ranges of 59%-80%, 80% -96%, and 81%-96%, respectively). Using order flow imbalance to proxy for information flow, Chakrabarty et al. (2015) also find that BVC performs less well in measuring the order flow of informed traders. These results are consistent with Easley et al. (2016)’s prediction that BVC efficacy may deteriorate in high latency markets. 

Indeed, Panayides et al. (2019) find that BVC outperforms Bulk TR and Bulk LR for a sample of stock transactions from the London Stock Exchange in 2017 (unlike in a sample of stocks trading on Euronext in 2007-2008), and attribute this to higher data granularity, as well as to growth in speed, volume and quote activity in markets. BVC is found to be positively related to spread measures and to event period returns after firm specific events such as earnings releases, buyback, and M&A announcements, indicating a comparative advantage in capturing information. Panayides et al. (2019) show that when correctly calibrated, BVC can capture information, and that the order imbalance proxy generally used for information is not optimal, especially in low latency markets. Carrion and Kolay (2021) explain that the order imbalance proxy is flawed in this underlying assumption that, while some informed traders may trade passively, they generally demand more liquidity than they supply. 

The classifiers described above rely entirely on the intuition of the researcher to define an estimator that captures the trading dynamics. Recent advances in machine learning offer new methods for classification which may improve the accuracy of some of these models, or yield insights as to where they succeed or fail. 

8 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

## _2.2. Machine Learning_ 

Coincident with the exponential growth of data and computing power there has been an explosion of research under the umbrella of machine learning. Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence that can be characterized as a collection of tools that utilize big data and computing power to build atheoretical prediction models that are particularly adept at solving classification problems. These models are evaluated purely on whether or not the model can be feasibly trained in order to yield useful out of sample predictions with little other criteria. In these models, the end justifies the means. Parsimony is only important in so far as the problem is computationally feasible. These models do not require deep intuition to set up although they do require the analyst to assemble relevant data from which the machine is to learn the underlying patterns if they exist. Forecasts are almost exclusively data-driven with little explicit reliance on theory. Therefore, machine learning is an inductive rather than the traditional deductive approach used in financial economics where behavior is derived from axioms or principles that govern behavior. In this study, we employ a supervised learning approach where we train on labeled data where we know whether the trade was a buy or sell. We employ several algorithms that digest specific examples of a given phenomenon and based only on the patterns in those examples, and produce forecasts when presented with new cases. The logic that the machine uses to make its predictions is opaque other than what can be gleaned from the generic algorithm employed to train the model. We are interested in determining whether machine learning can improve upon an important market microstructure classification problem, namely the signing of trades as buy or sell. 

There are many different classification algorithms that may be applied to any given data set. We employ a representative list of different algorithms looking for an effective model that classifies trade direction in equity and bond markets. By the same token, we admit that a myriad of models and combinations of models (ensemble models) are not explored. Our purpose here is not to identify the best prediction model possible. Instead, our goal is to see if an inductive approach can deliver insights into a classic problem in market microstructure. 

9 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

## _2.3. Machine Learning and Trade Classification_ 

As we explore the efficacy of machine learning as a trade signing methodology, we seek to answer the following questions: Can machine learning inductively discover a very simple but useful trade classification rule, namely TR? If we include as features only the raw trade data necessary to compute the tick rule classification, can machine learning match (or improve on) the TR accuracy? We investigate this problem in the stock and bond markets. Additionally, we can test whether machine learning improves the TR by adding the tick rule prediction as a feature to see if the resulting ensemble forecast accuracy is more accurate. Can machine learning devise a trade classification rule in one market, _viz_ . the bond market, and apply it in another market _viz_ ., the equity market? For this inquiry, we train a model in the corporate bond market and use the model to predict trade direction in the stock market. Do extant classification rules ignore important features of trades that may be used to assess trade direction? If we include new features in our model and we increase the classification accuracy does this lead to a better understanding of what information or market characteristics allows investors to determine the initiators of a trade? Can we identify features in the bond market important for classifying trades in the equity market and other markets, including those that have no pre-trade transparency? This is important because studies that measure trade classification accuracy in the equity market may be affected by trades with features with high classification error rates. 

Finally, we assess the ability of machine learning to classify markets with pre-trade transparency (such as in the equity and forward markets). The machine learning models we consider allow for the use of orders in trade direction 

## **3. Data and Methodology** 

## _3.1. Corporate Bond Data_ 

We examine all corporate bonds disseminated on the Enhanced Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (TRACE) between July 1, 2002 and December 31, 2019. TRACE has required 

10 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

brokers/dealers to report all transaction prices and quantities to its system since 2002 and includes 43 variables on trade data, including the provided trade direction indicator. To obtain other information on the characteristics of each traded bond, including S&P bond ratings, we merge the TRACE data with the Mergent Fixed Income Securities Database (FISD).[6] We include only corporate bonds coded as CDEB bond type, and exclude transactions with prices less than one dollar. We implement the Dick-Nielsen (2009) and Dick-Nielsen (2013) procedures for filtering and cleaning the TRACE data for cancellations, corrections, reversals, error trades, agency transactions, and inter-dealer buy transactions. Additionally, we exclude all inter-dealer sell trades and modify the trade commission indicator after 2011 to ensure all agency transactions are removed. 

——————–Insert Table 2 here——————– 

Table 2 provides a breakdown of the number of bonds trading over this period as well as statistics regarding the trading frequencies and volumes across bonds and days, and over investment-grade and high-yield sub-samples. Panel A reports a total of 59,754,556 trades (in 26,079 bond issues) trade over the sample period with a mean price of $100.51 and a mean par value of $802,358. On average, bonds trade 4 times a day with an average par value traded of $3,206,861, but liquidity varies considerably. Daily average volume across bonds is roughly $10 billion (untabulated). Sell-initiated trades are on average larger ($965,348) than buy-initiated trades ($685,365) and less frequent (41% vs 59%). Panel B reports that the distribution of buy and sell-initiated trades across investment-grade and high-yield bonds is fairly even.[7] 

Panel C of Table 2 reports trading frequency across bonds in the sample by decile. Consistent with Goldstein and Hotchkiss (2020), we find considerable trading frequency variability 

> 6 We were unable able to collect exact rating information for 8% of the sample, either due to an ‘NR’ designation, or because rating information was unavailable on FISD. 

> 7While on average across the sample period, 43% of trades across the 17.5 years are in investment-grade bonds, the ratio of high-yield to investment grade bonds is time varying. For example, in 2008, high-yield bond trades comprised 33.7% of all transactions (untabulated). Also, on a daily transaction level, these ratios vary, but the distribution of buyer and seller initiated trades remains fairly even. 

11 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

across bonds in our sample; bonds in the lowest decile trade 4 (6) days (trades) per year while those in the top decile trade 243 (2,134) days (trades) per year. However, conditional on a bond trading on a given day, it trades on average 4.31 times a day with a par value traded of $2.83 million (untabulated). This is consistent with other studies that have shown that when bonds do trade, they appear to do so in larger chunks and less frequently than stocks (see for example, Ronen and Zhou (2013) and Edwards et al. (2007)). 

Given the substantial liquidity differences between the public corporate bond and equity markets, and in order to draw meaningful inferences regarding the efficacy of various trade direction rules across the two markets, we create a high-activity (50+) sub-sample which more closely mirrors that of the equity market. The 50+ sub-sample includes all trades (on a given day) in any bond that trades 50 times or more (on that day). Since 50+ days include all days for which at at least one bond trades at least 50 times, these days comprise 95% of days in our sample.[8] 

**==> picture [250 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

Table 3 reports summary statistics for the 50+ sample comprising 4,425,689 trades in 6,397 bonds over 4,267 trading days. On average, 12 bonds trade at least 50 (on average 87) times per each of these days, with an average daily par value traded of $41 mil. Panel B reports that buy-initiated trades constitute 73.8% of transactions overall, and 83.8% (69.9%) of transactions in investment grade (high-yield) bonds. Sell-initiated trades, however, are on average larger ($921,233) than buy-initiated trades ($311,612), and larger on average in the investment grade sample ($1,208,826) versus high-yield ($734,531).[9] 

> 8Indeed, Chakrabarty et al. (2015) test classification rules on a sample of 300 NASDAQ-listed stocks and attempt to match their sample in activity to that of Easley et al. (2016), who focus on three most actively traded futures contracts. Their overall sample trades less frequently than that of Easley et al. (2016). However they observe that “futures trades are often smaller than equity trades, and as such the E-mini contract trades more frequently than our largest stocks. It is possible that BVC’s superior performance in futures may be due to more frequent transactions. However, our goal is to examine BVC applicability to equities rather than to dispute its usefulness for the futures. Similarly, in order to assess the relative efficacy of trade rules we filter on trade frequency, since that is likely the most restrictive of differences across the 3 markets. 

> 9The imbalance in the number of buys versus sells in our sample is likely not a concern, since we do not train the model on this sub-sample. 

12 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

## _3.2. Equity Data_ 

We employ five days of trade data from the TotalView-ITCH database provided by Nasdaq (December 9, 2013-December 13, 2013) for 1,984 NASDAQ stocks (1,493,298 non-cross trades). Our ITCH data include signed orders and trades, time-stamped to the nanosecond. For each trade, we capture ticker, price, size, timestamp, and the buy/sell trade flag. We merge the ITCH trade data with the Daily Taq (DTAQ) database provided by the NYSE, which include quotes and trades time-stamped to the millisecond. We match trades on ticker, date, price, millisecond, and volume to obtain quote variables (NBO, NBBO).[10] Our final sample of 1,277,404 uniquely matched trades in 1,946 stocks comprise on average 1,081 trades per day, with an average daily volume per stock of $8.9 million. 

## _3.3. Machine Learning Methods_ 

## _3.3.1. Machine learning algorithms_ 

We consider several algorithms including Decision Trees, Discriminant Analysis, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines, _k_ -Nearest Neighbor and a Neural Network (NN). Some of these algorithms were not well suited to the quantity of data we employed or they did not improve forecasts enough to be useful. We also considered a Random Forest (RF). The Random Forest algorithm is a popular choice among classification algorithms because it often performs well in large datasets. This was the only ensemble method (i.e., various combination of algorithms) we employed in our analysis.[11] While in many cases, ensemble methods increase prediction accuracy, they can also complicate identifying primitive features that lead to superior predictive power. We hope that beyond improved black-box predictions, machine learning can provide some useful economic intuition regarding the factors driving improve- 

> 10Since we aggregate ITCH trades to the millisecond, approximately 14% of ITCH trades are discarded in this matching procedure. An alternative matching procedure is considered, in which we compare each ITCH trade with the next or last available millisecond and retain an additional 13.5% of trades, which yields stronger results regarding the dominance of our RF model, rendering our choice the conservative one. 

> 11Technically, when we include measures like the tick rule or other traditional classifiers in a feature set we have an ensemble model. Other than the Random Forest we do not combine forecasts from multiple machine learning algorithms. 

13 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

ments. We explicitly report results for RF, NN, and Logistic Regression. However, we focus our attention on RF as it is the dominant performer.[12] 

Before we delve into the feature sets we use to train RF it is important to note that we report results from our first set of hyperparameters. Fine-tuning the hyperparameters to better fit the training set can result in over-fitting. RF was implemented with 100 trees and increasing that number did little to improve out-of-sample accuracy. We increased the number of leaves in a tree and varied the pruning parameters. These changes did not affect the accuracy significantly. Additionally, we employed 10-Fold cross-validation to check if our 70/30 random partition is appropriate. In 10-Fold cross-validation, we divide the sample into ten equal sizes and ten iterations of Random Forest using 90/10 partition are performed. The average accuracy of the ten iterations is not significantly different from 70/30 random partitions we initially chose. 

## _3.3.2. Feature selection_ 

We construct several sets of features (i.e., variables) used to predict the initiator. These feature sets are not determined by any underlying market microstructure theory. Instead, they are collections of institutional data items recorded at the time of a trade. In effect, this is the raw information that traders could use to classify trades were the trade direction indicator not provided. We also consider computed features that benefit from economic intuition in a way that cannot be considered raw trade data. The algorithms we employ do not efficiently incorporate lagged information. Therefore we include relevant lagged data in each observation. In one specification we include some features that incorporate information not available at the moment of the trade. We apply the classification algorithms to seven feature sets labeled _{_ 1 _}_ - _{_ 7 _}_ described below and shown in Table 4. 

Feature set _{_ 1 _}_ contains the price and time indicators necessary to compute the tick rule. Feature set _{_ 2 _}_ adds volume and lagged volume to _{_ 1 _}_ . These basic feature sets are composed 

> 12Specifically, RF is a 100-tree, 1-leaf, Random Forest and NN is a Feed Forward Neural Network with 15 hidden layers and 200 epochs. 

14 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

of transaction level data included on every trade ticket (and their lags). 

——————–Insert Table 4 here——————– 

Feature sets _{_ 3 _}_ through _{_ 6 _}_ include _{_ 2 _}_ and other available TRACE transaction level data, FISD variables, and calculated metrics based on the TRACE data. Specifically, _{_ 3 _}_ includes the tick rule classifier, _{_ 4 _}_ incorporates _{_ 3 _}_ and a variety of running and rolling statistics, and _{_ 5 _}_ is a subset of _{_ 4 _}_ in which features unique to the TRACE dataset are removed. The features in _{_ 5 _}_ are more likely to be available in other markets. Feature set _{_ 6 _}_ includes _{_ 4 _}_ and some forward looking variables, such as the daily high, low, and number of trades. While _{_ 6 _}_ cannot be used in real time because some of the variables are not known at the time of the trade, we investigate whether this information provides any incremental value in improving predictions. Finally, _{_ 7 _}_ , which can be used only in markets with pre-trade transparency, adds quotes to _{_ 5 _}_ , rendering the algorithm comparable to other classifiers (such as LR) that incorporate order information. 

## **4. Empirical Results** 

## _4.1. Machine Learning Algorithm Performance_ 

Our first task is to invoke a number of popular classification algorithms and evaluate their efficacy in fifteen rolling windows of three years each. In each window we use 70% of the data to train the classifier and then measure the out-of-bag prediction accuracy on the remaining 30% of the observations.[13] Table 5 provides accuracy rates for selected models spanning the period 2002-2019. Our results focus on three machine learning approaches that were reasonably fast to train on our data. Those are tree models, feed forward Neural Networks and conventional logistic regression. We find that a Neural Network performs on par with most other decision tree models (not reported) except for the Random Forest. Logistic Regression 

> 13Choices regarding the rolling window periods and percentages of training and testing batches are somewhat ad-hoc by nature. Our results are robust to all other choices made regarding the testing-to-training ratio (85%/15%, and 60%/40%), as well as to fixing the ratios to the first and last data points (as opposed to using random batches that maintain these ratios). In addition, we consider one and two year rolling windows and obtain similar results. 

15 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

performs about as well as TR (the most widely used classifier in markets without pre-trade transparency) but not as well as either a Neural Network or Random Forest. As mentioned earlier, the Random Forest approach (Breiman (2001) has an advantage over other algorithms we tried partly because it is an ensemble method. We stopped short of testing a myriad of other possible ensemble models (e.g, mixing tree models and neural networks) that might yield more accurate predictions, as more complex ensembles tend to obscure identification of any classification improvement.[14] Table 5 demonstrates that machine learning models provide incremental accuracy relative to conventional models. 

——————–Insert Table 5 here——————– 

Across all random forest models we consider, adding more inclusive feature sets improve classification accuracy. For each rolling window, RF _{_ 4 _}_ , RF _{_ 5 _}_ , and RF _{_ 6 _}_ outperform RF _{_ 1 _}_ , RF _{_ 2 _}_ , and RF _{_ 3 _}_ . On average, RF _{_ 4 _}_ (RF _{_ 5 _}_ ) accuracy level is 81.1% (80.6%) compared with accuracy rates of 77.1%, 77.2%, and 78.1% for RF _{_ 1 _}_ , RF _{_ 2 _}_ , and RF _{_ 3 _}_ , respectively. We de-emphasize RF _{_ 6 _}_ as it includes forward looking variables that yields only marginally better accuracy than RF _{_ 5 _}_ . Moreover, RF _{_ 4 _}_ and RF _{_ 5 _}_ show similar rates of prediction efficacy across the board indicating that adding the TRACE and FISD variables contributes little to prediction accuracy. The Random Forest algorithm outperforms the conventional TR model by a relatively large margin. On average, RF _{_ 4 _}_ outperforms TR by 12.3% and RF _{_ 5 _}_ outperforms TR by 11.8%. Examining each of the 15 rolling 3-year periods separately indicates that RF _{_ 4 _}_ outperforms the TR in each window by at least 8.4% (20162018), and at most by 16.5% (2007-2009). The results for RF _{_ 5 _}_ are similar. Notably, TR is also inferior to NN _{_ 4 _}_ by on average 7.2%. TR outperforms Logistic Regression (LG _{_ 4 _}_ ) by 3.9% on average. 

We now examine how well the models shown in Table 5 hold up out-of-sample. The models 

> 14More sophisticated analyses such as group ensembling could potentially improve accuracy. See for example, Bianchi et al. (2021) for an analysis on grouping variables when predicting bond risk premiums. Different algorithms yield different forecasts for each trade. One would expect that using the information in one forecast would decrease the error in the other. We trained a few ensembles that nested the forecast of NN as a feature in RF, and vice versa, with surprisingly little improvement in accuracy. 

16 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

trained on each three-year window are used to predict both short (1-year) or long (3-year) periods starting immediately following the training periods. Results for the short and long out-of-sample windows and their corresponding prediction accuracy levels are tabulated in Panels A and B of Table 6, respectively. 

——————–Insert Table 6 here——————– 

The short forecast accuracy rates for RF _{_ 4 _}_ are on average 77.8%, ranging from 73.7% to 82.9%, and the long forecast accuracy rates for RF _{_ 4 _}_ are on average 77.0%, ranging from 74.6% to 79.3%. Compared to out-of-bag accuracy levels shown in Table 5, the out of sample prediction rates are mildly lower, although the ordinal properties across model accuracy rates remains similar. RF _{_ 4 _}_ still outperforms NN _{_ 4 _}_ , LG _{_ 4 _}_ , and TR. Since RF _{_ 4 _}_ and RF _{_ 5 _}_ are effectively equally accurate, and since RF _{_ 5 _}_ is more universally applicable in both the bond and stock markets, we focus on RF _{_ 5 _}_ and de-emphasize RF _{_ 4 _}_ going forward. 

——————–Insert Table 7 here——————– 

Improved forecast accuracy can been achieved either by using a more flexible functional form for the model or by including new features (or both). To this end, we assess the incremental benefit of various features, some of which are typically used in conventional models, and others which are not. Table 7 reports the incremental out-of-sample prediction accuracy provided by each of the feature sets described in Table 4. Panel A shows that putting aside forward-looking feature sets, _{_ 4 _}_ provides the greatest combined improvement in accuracy (4.6%) over the simple feature set _{_ 1 _}_ , which includes only price and time, and that feature set _{_ 5 _}_ incrementally contributes 4.4%. Breaking down the feature sets allows us to report the incremental accuracy provided by each of the individual features included in the various sets. Volume contributes 0.4% in predictive accuracy, TR contributes 1.5%, bond market variables collectively contribute 0.3%, and the forward looking data collectively contributes 1.2%. While the calculated metrics (running & rolling stats) are weak predictors when considered individually, Panel B reports that collectively, they are the greatest incremental contributor to accuracy (2.4%), which is consistent with Breiman (2001)’s argument that RF can utilize 

17 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

a collection of weak predictors to improve forecasts. 

——————–Insert Table 8 here——————– 

Given the bond market’s notorious pockets of illiquidity, we examine both short and long term out-of-sample accuracy rates in our 50+ sample. On these days, prediction accuracy rates for each of the machine learning algorithms and models tend to be higher than those reported for the full sample (in Table 6), with RF _{_ 5 _}_ short term (long term) accuracy levels exceeding those for the full sample by 3.7% (1.5%) on average. Table 8 reports that the RF _{_ 5 _}_ short forecast accuracy rate is on average 81.4% (ranging from 71.6% to 88.5%), and the long forecast accuracy rates is on average 79.1% (ranging from 73.0% to 84.3%). Conversely, prediction accuracy for TR is 5.8% lower in the 50+ sample than the full sample. 

Notably, however, RF _{_ 5 _}_ outperforms TR by a larger margin in the 50+ sample, and these combined results suggest that in unconditional samples of data, infrequent trade erodes trade direction classifiers. Since research focused on classification rules is often limited by data availability, efficacy of classification algorithms is often determined in small cuts of trading samples and used to infer the efficacy over fuller and unrestricted datasets (see Table 1). These results suggest that varying trading frequencies affect the accuracy of trade direction 

## _4.2. Forecast Accuracy with Varying Trading Characteristics and Market Structure_ 

The results in Table 8 above highlight how forecast accuracy varies with trading characteristics and market structure. In particular, we investigate further the effect of thin trading. While thin markets are typically associated with credit markets, these results may have relevance in higher frequency markets such as the equity markets as well. 

——————–Insert Figure 1 here——————– 

Figure 1a highlights how infrequent trading erodes accuracy rates of classification algorithms. We graph the change in RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR accuracy as a function of the number of transactions per day, for the entire sample. The figure shows improved accuracy rates for both models as trading activity increases, with RF _{_ 5 _}_ uniformly outperforming TR across all 

18 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

trading frequency ranges, even in the extreme case of one trade per day. 

In order to investigate what drives the above results, we consider the time between trades and whether longer lapses of time between trading activity weakens the prediction accuracy. Figure 1b shows the accuracy prediction rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR across trading deciles, where bonds in decile 1 trade on average 6 days apart, ranging from 5,277 to 1.9 days apart, and where bonds in decile 10 trade on average 10 seconds apart, ranging from 46 to 0 seconds apart. As the time elapsed since the last trade decreases, accuracy rates for model RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR improve. Prediction rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ (TR) range from 71.57% (68.05%) in decile 1 to 81.43% (72.33%) in decile 10. 

These results are seemingly inconsistent with those of Ellis et al. (2000), who find that slow trading yields more accurate predictions than fast trading for their sample of 200 NASDAQ and NYSE stocks. However, the inferences across studies are easily reconciled: Ellis et al. (2000) define slow trading as over 300 seconds apart, and fast trading as under 5 seconds apart.[15] Conversely, the bonds in our ‘slowest’ decile trade over 518,546 seconds apart, and those in the fastest trade under 10 seconds. Thus, we are in essence examining different ranges of trade speed, and the combined results suggest an alternative explanation for the findings in Ellis et al. (2000). There may in fact be optimal speed ranges for trade direction classification; trade that is too fast does not allow market participants to update trades based on order or trade flow information, thereby rendering the information in the trade direction uninformative. When trades reflect recent information, trade direction algorithms can perform better. 

This pattern may therefore also manifest itself in differing prediction accuracies across the trading day. If trades are informative, we expect that prediction accuracies would be higher in afternoon hours, when trade information and other public information enters prices more frequently (than overnight periods, for example). Figure 2a shows that trade direction accuracy is lowest for both RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR in the morning hours after long periods of low or no trading information. Conversely, trade accuracy levels peak for both RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR in 

> 15 We assume Ellis et al. (2000) restrict trades to those occurring within one trading day. 

19 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

the middle of the trading day and plummet at 6PM. The patterns of efficacy are remarkably similar across the two rules with RF _{_ 5 _}_ outperforming TR by on average 8%, ranging from 5.1% at 6pm to 10.5% at 7am. Accuracy rates on Mondays, which follow longer periods of notrade are consistent with patterns for other days of the week (Figure 2c).[16] While these results can be attributed to the patterns of information flow and frequency of trade at different times of the day, they may also be driven by related patterns in average trade size and cumulative hourly volume across the day. 

**==> picture [255 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

For example, Ronen and Zhou (2013) show for a sample of TRACE bonds trading from 2003-2006 that overnight trades tend to be fewer but larger than during the trading day, especially after earnings announcements. Similarly, Figure 2b shows the distribution of average trade size and trade frequency for our sample by hour. Overnight trades are on average larger and less frequent than those during the trading day, with the number of trades-per-hour peaking during the 3PM-4PM window. 

**==> picture [250 x 9] intentionally omitted <==**

Table 9 (Panel A) reports prediction accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR across trade sizes. Following Hendershott and Madhavan (2015), we classify trades into four size categories: micro ($1 to $100,000), odd-lot ($100K to $1M), round-lot ($1M to $5M), and block ($5M+) trades. We find that the majority of trades are micro-sized, and the number of trades per category declines as trade size increases. Across both samples, and for high-yield and investment grade bonds alike, accuracy rates for both RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR are markedly higher for the micro-sized trades. For example, in the full sample, accuracy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ (TR) for micro trades is 83.3% (71.9%) compared with 70.7% (65.6%) for odd-lot, 66.6% (64.4%) for round-lot, and 67.2% (65.6%) for block trades, respectively. Figure 3 shows that the difference in accuracy between 

> 16We also examine accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR across the days of the week in the first 2 and 4 hours of trade of the day and do not find that Monday morning trades produce lower accuracy rates than other mornings. 

20 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

the micro-sized and other trade sizes generally decreases over time for both classifiers, albeit less so for TR.[17] The converging pattern may be attributable to the observed surge in micro trades in recent years (See Figure 3c), which may in turn be due to the recent emergence in electronic bond trading. The lower trading costs associated with electronic trading may have spurred trades from both small and large traders, resulting in increased trade splitting behavior and an increase in sophisticated micro trades. In the absence of knowledge regarding the black-box information set institutional investors use, (which, in an ideal world, we would plug in to our feature set to increase accuracy), we expect RF _{_ 5 _}_ accuracy to be lower for more sophisticated trades.[18] 

**==> picture [255 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

Goldstein et al. (2021) show that most of the trading activity in new issues occurs in the first 20 days. During the first 10 days, dealers appear to charge different prices for different customers, resulting in greater observed price dispersion. Panel B of Table 9 reports that 14.60% of trades in our 50+ trades sample are in new issues, within 20 days of the offering date, and that accuracy rates for both classifiers increase uniformly as time from the offering date elapses. RF _{_ 5 _}_ (TR) accuracy is 71.4% (60.0%) within 10 days of the offering date compared to 82.0% (62.1%) within 2 years of the offering date. Trading volume has also been shown to decrease as a bond further ages (Alexander et al. (2000) and Hotchkiss and Jostova (2017)), likely due to bonds being absorbed into less actively traded portfolios. Classifier accuracy decreases in both the full and 50+ sample maturity approaches. RF _{_ 5 _}_ (TR) accuracy is 74.1% (64.8%) for bonds within 90 days of maturity compared to 77.1% (63.6%) within 1 year of the offering date (comprising 3.7% of trade in the 50+ sample). Overall, results shown 

> 17To alleviate a potential concern that B/S flag misclassifications would be more pronounced for larger size trades, which are more likely to be trades of institutions, we train RF _{_ 5 _}_ on micro trades and find (untabulated) that on average, RF _{_ 5 _}_ outperforms TR for both the micro group and larger trade sizes. 

> 18 See Hendershott and Madhavan (2015) who show that electronic trading costs are lower than for OTC trade and O’Hara and Zhou (2021a) who show declining transaction costs for smaller electronic trades by 2017. This is a departure from the inverse relationship observed between trade size and transaction costs for earlier time periods, with the size discount generally attributed to either dealer bargaining power or fixed costs (Saunders et al. (2002), Hong and Warga (2000), Chakravarty and Sarkar (2003), Bessembinder et al. (2006), Edwards et al. (2007), Goldstein et al. (2007), Feldh¨utter (2012), Schultz (2001), and Pinter et al. (2021)). 

21 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

in Panel B of Table 9 are consistent with classifier accuracy increasing with the number of trades. 

Since classifier accuracy rates are determined against the buy/sell indicators, the existence of pre-negotiated trades (which should result in matched trades on opposing sides) in our sample may obfuscate true accuracy levels. Panel C of Table 9 demonstrates the effect of prenegotiated trades, proxied for by identifying matched opposing pairs of trades with the same price at the same time (and alternatively within 60 seconds of each other), on accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR. Both classifiers’ accuracy rates are approximately 50% for both proxies, as expected, and indicates that RF _{_ 5 _}_ is not likely overfit. The effect of removing these trades from our sample is also shown, with the net sample yielding accuracy rates for both classifiers which are slightly higher than those for our full sample, (78.1% versus 77.6% for RF _{_ 5 _}_ and 69.6% versus 69.3% for TR).[19] 

Trade direction rules may also be sensitive to the arrival of unanticipated material information. Indeed, Hotchkiss and Ronen (2002), and Ronen and Zhou (2013) examine the informational efficiency of the corporate bond market and show that firm specific information is rapidly incorporated into high-yield bond prices within short windows during the day.[20] Accordingly, we collect all earnings announcements and time stamps from I/B/E/S for the 5,449 issuers with outstanding bonds over the 17.5 year sample period. Table 10 reports accuracy rates for both RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR for high-yield bonds immediately following earning releases. 

——————–Insert Table 10 here——————– 

Table 10 reports the accuracy levels for high-yield bonds in the 50+ sample following earnings announcements made by their issuing firms. Of the 4,267 days in the 50+ sample, 

> 19The vast majority of matched pairs was removed in our initial data filtering steps. The incidence of those remaining and tabulated is small; matched pairs within 0 (60) seconds constitute 1% (1.5%) of our sample. An alternative but likely less accurate approach in which matched pairs additionally include those in which the counterparty is a dealer would add another 3.5% of trades. Also, since our data ends in December 2019 we expect the incidence of matched customer-to-customer trades to be lower than found in O’Hara and Zhou (2021b) who examine 2020 data. Finally, in the absence of dealer identity data, we cannot identify pre-negotiated trades in which opposing trade sizes do not match. However, our results indicate that the inclusion of these in our sample likely yields underestimated classifier accuracy rates throughout. 

> 20Kedia and Zhou (2014) also finds swift reaction in bonds price around M&A announcements. 

22 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

we identify 384 days (603 bonds days) that were triggered by an earnings announcement for at least one of the high-yield bonds trading that day.[21] We calculate the short term (0,+1) accuracy rate of the classifiers for earnings-triggered bond trades and compare them to accuracy rates for other high-yield and investment grade bonds trading on the same day from different (non-announcing) issuing firms. RF _{_ 5 _}_ performs best for the investment grade control sample (86.6%), and worst for the earnings-triggered bonds (79.1%). These results are reversed for TR, for which accuracy rates are highest in earnings triggered bond trades (65.2%). Since short horizon earnings-triggered bond trades are likely those which reflect the most uncertainty regarding firm value, we infer that RF _{_ 5 _}_ performs best when there is less information uncertainty or dispersion regarding bond values. Indeed, we calculate the price dispersion, measured as the daily standard deviation of prices for all categories and observe an inverse (positive) relationship between the efficacy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ (TR) and price dispersion.[22] 

We further examine the impact of information on the efficacy of trade direction predictors by examining the effect of cross-sectional trade information flow on classifiers. Unlike in the equity market, firms may have several outstanding bonds trading contemporaneously. Over the 18-year sample period, the average number of bonds outstanding trading per year is 3.5 and ranges from 1 to 117. In Panel B of Table 10, we report accuracy rates on earnings triggered 50+ days for RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR separately based on whether only one bond per issuer trades at least 50 times on a 50+ day, or whether there are multiple bonds per issuer with at least 50 trades per day. The results are shown for all earnings triggered days, as well as separately for good and bad news days, where good (bad) news days are defined as those for which earnings surprises are in deciles 5-9 (0-4) corresponding to positive (negative) surprises. 

Panel B reports that RF _{_ 5 _}_ accuracy outperforms TR across all groups and samples (overall, 78.7% versus 65.5%). The effect of multiple issues is shown in the ‘2+’ row and 

> 21The analysis in Panel A is conducted on a bond-day level, defined as the incidence of bonds with a specific characteristic trading on one day. For example, if on one 50+ trading day there are two earnings releases by two issuers that have bonds trading on that day, we count that as two bonds days. Panel A shows 603 earnings triggered 50+ bond days that occur over 385 calendar dates 

> 22Similar results are obtained calculating accuracy rates based on trade-by-trade level (versus issuer level). 

23 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

indicates that RF _{_ 5 _}_ accuracy is higher (by issuer) for high-yield bonds with multiple issues trading at least 50 times on the same day, particularly for earnings triggered bonds, suggesting that multiple issues help resolve price uncertainty, especially after earnings announcements. Notably, accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ are higher on bad news days, which may be associated with less uncertainty than good news for high-yield bonds. A comparison of results across earnings triggered and non- earnings triggered bonds reveals that accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ are higher for non-triggered bonds (81.4% versus 78.7%), again consistent with the notion that RF _{_ 5 _}_ performs best when uncertainty is lowest. These results are also confirmed by our findings reported in Panel C; RF _{_ 5 _}_ accuracy rates around bond rating upgrades and downgrades are slightly lower than on non-rating change days, in both the full and constrained 50+) samples.[23] 

The combined results of this section suggest that trade-based classifiers are sensitive to trading characteristics and institutional features. We find an inverse relationship between accuracy rates and trade size for both RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR, consistent with Ellis et al. (2000), Finucane (2000), Chakrabarty et al. (2007), and Chakrabarty et al. (2012), who find that trade classifier accuracy is generally smaller for larger trades in equity markets. Further, we find that accuracy rates for both RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR are sensitive to trading frequency (number of trades). Trading frequency and time elapsed between trades have been found to be determinants of trade direction classifiers in different contexts in Odders-White (2000), Ellis et al. (2000)). Finally, both rules perform better during trading hours than non-trading hours. However, while RF _{_ 5 _}_ dominates TR in all cases, direct tests surrounding firm specific information events indicate that RF _{_ 5 _}_ is sensitive to information and performs best when there is little information uncertainty regarding the value of the security as also indicated by accuracies for investment grade bonds. 

> 23Results for high-yield bonds on all 50+ days regardless of whether earnings are released, as well as for a sub-sample of non-triggered bonds on 50+ days indicate that accuracy rates for multiple issues are not higher than those for single issues, further corroborating the notion that the multiplicity of issues trading is helpful in resolving uncertainty when information is released (unlike in non-information days). Results provided upon request. 

24 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

## _4.3. BVC and Bulk Classifiers_ 

Since BVC reports accuracy per aggregated volume, it is not immediately comparable to either RF _{_ 5 _}_ or TR, which are are computed at the trade-level. We therefore compute Bulk TR (Panayides et al. (2019), Easley et al. (2016), and Chakrabarty et al. (2015)) and Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ .[24] Table 11 reports that across all bars (volume, time, and trade), Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ outperforms Bulk TR, which in turn outperforms the BVC.[25] The relatively low accuracy rates for BVC in the bond market are consistent with results and predictions in Panayides et al. (2019), Easley et al. (2016) and Chakrabarty et al. (2015) regarding the BVC’s comparative advantages are in lower latency markets. 

——————–Insert Table 11 here——————– 

The first set of columns in Panel A of Table 11 report BVC accuracy rates based on the 1, 5, 25, 50, and 100 trade bars and is 66.9%, 55.8%, 56.9%, 58.2%, and 59.3% on average across years, respectively.[26] The negative relationship observed between BVC accuracy rates and trade bar length is in contrast to the positive ones shown in Chakrabarty et al. (2015) for the equity market. 

The second and third sets of columns in Panel A report a more modest negative association between both the Bulk TR and Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ ’s accuracy rates and trade bar length. The accuracy rates of Bulk TR are somewhat higher than BVC in each trade bar, whereas the accuracy rates of Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ are the highest. Panel B reports volume-weighted accuracy 

> 24 BVC aggregation depends on the distribution of the price difference between bars, and bar volume is determined by the cumulative distribution function of student’s t-distribution. Since the distribution is filled using the entire sample, BVC uses forward-looking information. Consider five hundred trades, where one sets up bars with 5 trades, resulting in 100 bars. In this example, the CDF will be known only when all the 100 bars are filled. For example, buy volume at bar 10 can be calculated when all 100 bars are filled. 

> 25The feature sets also differ across these classifiers. Bulk TR and BVC implement feature set _{_ 2 _}_ , incorporating price, volume and time, whereas Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ incorporates feature set _{_ 5 _}_ 

> 26We include the 1-trade bar to provide some comparison with trade based rules. Carrion and Kolay (2020) argue (but do not test) that despite the attributes of BVC and other aggregated trade classifiers, trade level algorithms would be preferable to aggregated ones, even in cases where signing aggregated imbalances may be feasible.For a single trade, a trade-based rule will produce binary output (buy-initiated (B), sell-initiated (S)), whereas BVC provides a probability that the trade is either B or S (e.g, 95% B, 5% S). The average BVC accuracy for a specific bar is therefore calculated as the average (across year) percent of correctly classified (probability-weighted) volume (per day). 

25 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

rates for the three models, all of which display decreased efficacy as the volume bars increase. The pattern of accuracy using volume bars mimics the pattern using trade bars. We attribute the negative relationship between bar length and accuracy to the likelihood that larger trades are more likely to appear in the larger volume bars. This is consistent in spirit with results shown in Section 4.2, documenting a deterioration in accuracy of the trade-based RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR classifiers for larger trades. Panel C reports the relative accuracy of the models using time bars of one day and one week. This departure from the more conventional bars examined in the extant literature (which are typically within a trading day) is dictated by the relative thinness of bond markets. While accuracy rates for Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ are higher than for Bulk TR and BVC (72.6% versus 67.8% and 59.9% for the daily bar and 70.2% versus 66.4% and 55.3% for the weekly bar), both BVC and Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ deteriorate slightly as the trade bar increases. Finally, we report aggregated accuracy rates for each trade, volume and time bar for each bulk rule in the 50+ sample . The results indicate that Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ accuracy tends is higher in the 50+ sample (unlike Bulk TR and BVC). 

Overall, the results in Table 11 indicate that the BVC yields lower accuracy rates than the Bulk TR or Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ , which is consistent with the predictions of Easley et al. (2016) regarding the applicability of BVC to markets less active than the futures markets (in which BVC was originally tested). The impetus to examine bulk classifiers in thin markets like the bond market stems from several papers (Easley et al. (2016), Panayides et al. (2019), and Chakrabarty et al. (2015), that documented the BVC comparative advantage in discovering trade direction when new information arrives. Easley et al. (2016) BVC detects information following corporate events. 

Given the results for high-yield bonds in the 50+ sample following earnings announcements (Section 4.2) regarding the sensitivity of RF _{_ 5 _}_ to information uncertainty, we now examine the relative ability of RF _{_ 5 _}_ and BVC to capture information effects. Table 12 documents accuracy rates for the BVC, Bulk TR, and Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ on earnings-triggered days (Panel 

26 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

A).[27] While (unlike BVC and Bulk TR), Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ accuracy deteriorates slightly when the arrival of new information is more likely (high-yield bonds whose issuers announced earnings), it outperforms both BVC and Bulk TR for all categories (for high-yield bonds with and without earnings announcements, and for investment grade bonds). 

A similar pattern is documented in Panel B of Table 12, in which we report accuracy rates for high-yield bonds on 50+ days by good news and bad news, and across earnings triggered and non-earnings triggered bonds. Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ accuracy rates decrease slightly for triggered high-yield bonds, unlike both BVC and Bulk TR, which show some accuracy improvement (consistent with the comparison of all three rules to the efficacy of each classifier for the larger 50+ sample shown in Table 11). However, Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ outperforms both Bulk TR and BVC following information events (as well as for non-triggered bonds). For example, on all earnings-triggered 50+ days, Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ is on average 2.7% lower for triggered bonds (than for non-triggered bonds), but 8.5% higher than BVC and 6% higher than Bulk TR. Finally, no clear patterns are observed across positive and negative news days. 

In using total volume and price changes within a block of trades to classify order flow into buying and selling volume, an appealing attribute of BVC is in its ability to capture trade aggressors and informative trade flow. However, the order flow imbalance proxy generally used in BVC and other bulk classifiers has been shown to be suboptimal, especially in low latency markets (Panayides et al. (2019)), and potentially flawed in its assumption that informed traders will demand more liquidity than they supply (Carrion and Kolay (2021)). Nonetheless, the order imbalance proxy remains critical in its function; While Panayides et al. (2019) examine BVC in a regression framework surrounding corporate events, data limitations have likely prohibited researchers from directly testing the efficacy of trading direction classifiers subsequent to specific information days for most markets, as well as to further distinguish across good and bad news days.[28] The large panel of TRACE bonds we examine allows for 

> 27All results are shown for the volume bar $1,000, which produced the highest accuracy rates for all three rules in the 50+ sample in Table 11. Results for other bar types and levels produce qualitatively similar results 

> 28Odders-White (2000) examined the efficacy of LR in equity markets on good and bad news days for 23 

27 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

a simple comparative analysis of this relatively unexplored issue. Specifically, while spread regressions and other order flow analyses (such as in Panayides et al. (2019)) are aimed at resolving more conclusively the question of whether BVC can detect informed trading through order flow information, we address the ability of BVC (and other bulk classifiers) to detect informed trading directly through trades (in high-yield bonds triggered by earnings events, which would be informative). 

## **5. Equity market results: Machine learning vs. the usual suspects** 

In previous sections we found that in the bond market RF _{_ 5 _}_ and its bulk counterpart outperform the TR and BVC. The extensive signed TRACE dataset presented an unparalleled opportunity to explore the impact of trading characteristics and information on trade direction classifier efficacy. An obvious question that arises is whether or not the machine learning approach is useful in other markets, including those that enjoy lower latency and those with pre-trade transparency. 

Several studies compared the efficacy of various trade-based tick rules using equity data (Finucane (2000), Odders-White (2000), Ellis et al. (2000), Theissen (2001), Chakrabarty et al. (2007), Rosenthal (2012), Asquith et al. (2010), and Carrion and Kolay (2020) The evidence on the relative efficacy of different trade-based and bulk algorithms is mixed, with LR generally leading the pack. Chakrabarty et al. (2015) examines the efficacy of BVC for a sample of NASDAQ stocks using the TotalView-ITCH data (hereafter ITCH) and show that both the tick rule (TR) and the Lee-Ready (LR) algorithms are more accurate than the BVC across the board. 

Using the same data source as in Chakrabarty et al. (2015), we examine the relative efficacy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ , TR, and LR. Since Chakrabarty et al. (2015) find that the BVC is less accurate than both LR and TR in the ITCH data, and as our results in section 4.3 above indicate, aggregated trade-based classifiers produce lower accuracy rates on average than trade based classifiers, we 

announcements. 

28 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

restrict our analysis to the latter.[29] One important feature of LR that differentiates it from TR and RF _{_ 5 _}_ is that it employs order flow information (in addition to trades) in classifying trades. We therefore include order flow information in feature set _{_ 7 _}_ by augmenting _{_ 5 _}_ with quote features (see Table 4). 

——————–Insert Table 13 here——————– 

Table 13 reports out-of-sample accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ , RF _{_ 7 _}_ , LR and TR for our sample of 1,277,404 trades in 1,949 stocks trading over the five days period from 12/09/201312/13/2013. We train RF _{_ 5 _}_ and RF _{_ 7 _}_ over the first three days (using 842,494 observations) in the sample, test on the remaining days (434,910 transactions), and compute the variables required by RF _{_ 5 _}_ and RF _{_ 7 _}_ . Panel A indicates that the accuracy of TR is higher in the equity market than in the corporate bond market, whereas the ITCH-Trained RF _{_ 5 _}_ performs slightly less well in the equity market than the TRACE-trained model works in the corporate bond market. RF _{_ 7 _}_ , with 77.6% accuracy, outperforms all other models trained on ITCH data. The corresponding accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ , LR, and TR are 74.6%, 74.0%, and 74.3%, respectively.[30] 

Panel B tabulates accuracy rates for the above classifiers by frequency decile (based on the daily number of trades), and shows that across all deciles, RF _{_ 7 _}_ outperforms LR and TR. Further, as the number of trades per day increases, the accuracy of both RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR increase, which is consistent with the results reported in Section 4 for the TRACE sample of bonds (see also Figure 4a). 

——————–Insert Figure 4 here——————– 

> 29Chakrabarty et al. (2015) examine a different sub sample of trades on ITCH, comprised of 300 stocks trading in May, June, and July 2011. However, as in their study, our ITCH data is restricted orders and trades that occur on NASDAQ. Since TR and LR depend on quote and trade sequencing, and since off-exchange orders and trades are not included, classifier accuracy may be dampened when applied to the consolidated feed. 

> 30To put the incremental accuracy in context, if the probability of a buyer-initiated trade is 50%, then a random guess of the trade sign should be 50% accurate. If one observes an accuracy rate of 70%, 20% is the substantive incremental accuracy of the model. Thus, small incremental differences in forecast accuracy constitutes a sizeable percentage increase in model accuracy. For example, an increase in accuracy from 70% to 72% represents a 2% _/_ 20% = 10% improvement in predictability. 

29 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

However, quote based classifiers (RF _{_ 7 _}_ and LR) display a less monotonic relationship, and while accuracy rates are highest for the tenth decile, they exhibit a W-shaped pattern, with a spike at the 5th decile and troughs at the 3rd and 7th. 

While these results appear to be inconsistent with Ellis et al. (2000) and Odders-White (2000) who both find that LR accuracy increases as the time between trades increases, a closer examination of the datasets used in these studies reconciles these differences. Specifically, the data in both earlier papers corresponds to the lowest deciles in our 2013 sample. For example, the average daily trading frequency across stocks in Ellis et al. (2000), who examine NASDAQ stocks in 1996-1997, roughly corresponds to the second decile in our sample, and the data (NYSE stocks in 1990-1991) examined by Odders-White (2000) roughly corresponds to our first (lowest) decile. The marked difference in trading frequency for the stocks in our sample and those in these previous studies is likely due to the fact that trading volume and speed have skyrocketed in recent years, due in part to technological advancements and reduced trading costs in electronic markets (Jain (2005); Hendershott and Moulton (2011)).[31] 

Figure 4 also shows that overall, and similarly to what we found in the bond market, classifier accuracy appears to be higher when trades are faster (see Figure 4b) and when trade sizes are smaller, albeit these relationships are less monotonic than we observed in the bond market (see Figure 4c). Notably, LR accuracy patterns deviate from the other rules. LR accuracy rates dip for trades that are not very fast or slow, for odd-lot trades, and for trade sizes of 200 shares and greater. As was the case with our trade frequency tests, at first blush our results for trade speed appear inconsistent with those of Ellis et al. (2000) and Odders-White (2000), but are easily reconciled when the difference in datasets are taken into account. 

> 31Holden and Jacobsen (2014) and Easley et al. (2016)) have demonstrated that the rapid growth of algorithmic high frequency (HFT) and low-latency trading may render traditional classifiers methods less effective. Carrion and Kolay (2020) finds that for a HFT sample of 120 NASDAQ stocks trading in 2008-2010, LR accuracy is on average 84.83% (depending on the adjustments made). Our tenth decile includes on average 7,000 trades per day per stock and is roughly comparable to the Carrion and Kolay (2020) data set, with roughly 10,000 daily trades and our results are loosely in line with his, with (un-calibrated) LR accuracy for decile 10 equaling 81.3%. 

30 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

The combined results from our study, which spans a large range of trading frequencies, including high latency trades in the corporate bond markets (when interpreted alongside those in earlier papers) reveal that most classifiers’ accuracy is maximized when the number of daily trades is highest (with several local maxima in the equity market), when trade is fast, and when trade sizes are smaller. 

Our finding that trade frequency is positively related to RF _{_ 7 _}_ accuracy across all ranges is notable in light of recent literature on new trade classification algorithms (Easley et al. (2016), Panayides et al. (2019), Chakrabarty et al. (2015), and Carrion and Kolay (2021)), which generally suggest that as markets become increasingly faster (more trades per unit time), existing algorithms perform worse, exacerbating the need for new, more effective ones, that are more compatible with these faster markets. Thus, one clear advantage of the machine learning algorithm we propose is that it performs better as the number of trades increases. The flexibility of a Random Forest to capture patterns more efficiently than more traditional methods and its to achieve enhanced performance using even a collection of weak predictors renders it especially useful as markets generally become faster due to technology. Overall, the results in Table 13 as well as those in Section 4 reveal that RF _{_ 5 _}_ and RF _{_ 7 _}_ outperform LR and TR across all samples and for different types of trades. 

As an alternative to the ITCH trained RF _{_ 7 _}_ , we also test the ability of the TRACEtrained RF _{_ 5 _}_ to classify equity market trades and find that its accuracy in the ITCH data is an unimpressive 61.2%, trailing that of TR (71.7%). While it is disappointing that we could not train the model in one market and predict well in another, we harvested useful insights from the TRACE dataset regarding the relative efficacy of different machine learning and traditional trade direction classifiers. The TRACE trained models led us to RF _{_ 5 _}_ and ultimately RF _{_ 7 _}_ in the equity market. Despite the lackluster transfer efficacy of cross-market trained models, we can report that machine learning does improve accuracy when trained on in-market data. Specifically, algorithms that use conventional measures and market relevant data do indeed improve classification accuracy as evidenced by the robust accuracy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ . 

31 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

The critical element is to have a sample of signed trades to work from to operationalize supervised learning on this important problem. 

One caveat is that machine learning and other data driven methods achieve limited success with incomplete data. Since equity markets are fragmented, even if researchers obtain full sets of data, the inability to ensure correct sequencing of trades due to fragmentation and high frequency trading in the current equity markets presents problems for constructing machine learning models. For example, while the ITCH data we use in the study is in sequence, it comprises only 13% of total trades occurring on the days in our sample. Extant studies developing and comparing the efficacy of trade rules were likely also subject to data quality issues that limited their ability to conduct analyses on more than partial segments of data. 

The relative completeness of the TRACE data provides a controlled environment to measure the deleterious effect of using incomplete data. In our context, when the machine learned from the more complete bond data, it was able to discover TR with a little prompting by the researcher, but when it learned from the less complete equity market data, it could not. Specifically, the ITCH-trained RF _{_ 1 _}_ , which is loosely the machine learning counterpart to TR, is only 54.1% accurate, versus 74.3% for TR, but the TRACE-trained RF _{_ 1 _}_ accuracy is 73.2%, versus 69.3% for TR. This discrepancy and the inability of RF _{_ 1 _}_ to track TR more adequately in the equity market is likely due to the incomplete nature of the data. 

## **6. Conclusion** 

Leveraging the availability of a large panel of signed trade data in the corporate bond market, we explore machine learning methods to construct a new trade signing algorithm that provides insights about trade signing in both the bond and equity markets. Our model is estimated using machine learning and outperforms existing models that predict the initiator of a trade. Importantly, our approach can be used in markets, both with and without pre-trade transparency. 

We fit models to a variety of algorithms and determined that a Random Forest model 

32 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

is the superior machine learning algorithm for this problem. Machine learning enabled us to include additional features to improve the accuracy of conventional trade-based and barbased classifiers used in the literature. Looking at the specific features that improve forecasting accuracy we found the biggest improvements came from including the Tick Rule forecast and a variety of rolling and running price statistics. These features were important in both the stock and bond markets. Although we could not use a model trained in the bond market to make accurate predictions on equity trades, a trained model using insights we obtained from the bond market analysis yielded a model in the equity market that outperformed all conventional models. 

Our analysis highlights various bond and trading characteristics that affect trade signing accuracy. Accuracy tends to be better in more liquid bonds and the gap between our model and the tick rule widens. Patterns of information flow and frequency of trade are drivers of accuracy. Accuracy for smaller trades is higher than for larger trades. Our model is also sensitive to information as it performs best when price uncertainty is lower. 

These results generally carry over to the equity market and generally reconcile with previous findings. Notably, RF accuracy rates are higher in both markets when there are more trades a day, and when trades are faster, which is particularly relevant in today’s faster markets. 

Future work might include many other features that we did not investigate. We also employed straightforward machine learning algorithms for our models. Methods that handle the time-series component of panel data in a more sophisticated way may yield even better results. All of the important characteristics we found could, in principle, be devised by a more sophisticated machine learning algorithm. Until such an algorithm is found new derived features will need to be supplied. The hope is that better predictability will provide more insight into the features that determine whether the buyer or the seller initiates a trade. 

33 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

## **References** 

- Aitken, M. and Frino, A. The accuracy of the tick test: Evidence from the Australian stock exchange. _Journal of Banking and Finance_ , 20(10):1715–1729, 12 1996. 

- Alexander, G. J., Edwards, A. K., and Ferri, M. G. What Does Nasdaq’s High-Yield Bond Market Reveal About Bondholder-Stockholder Conflicts? _Financial Management_ , 29(1 (Spring)):23–39, 2000. 

- Asquith, P., Oman, R., and Safaya, C. Short sales and trade classification algorithms. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 13(1):157–173, 2010. 

- Asquith, P., Oman, R., and Safaya, C. Rebuttal of short sales, long sales, and the Lee-Ready trade classification algorithm revisited. 2012. URL `http://ssrn.com/abstract=2203712` . 

- Bessembinder, H., Maxwell, W., and Venkataraman, K. Market transparency, liquidity externalities, and institutional trading costs in corporate bonds. _Journal of Financial Economics_ , 82(2):251–288, 11 2006. 

- Bessembinder, H. Issues in assessing trade execution costs. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 6: 233–257, 2003. 

- Bianchi, D., B¨uchner, M., and Tamoni, A. Bond Risk Premiums with Machine Learning. _The Review of Financial Studies_ , 34(2):1046–1089, 1 2021. 

- Blume, M. E., Mackinlay, A. C., and Terker, B. Order Imbalances and Stock Price Movements on October 19 and 20, 1987. _The Journal of Finance_ , 44(4):827–848, 1989. 

- Breiman, L. Random Forests. _Machine Learning_ , 45(1):5–32, 2001. 

- Carrion, A. and Kolay, M. Trade signing in fast markets. _Financial Review_ , 55(3):385–404, 8 2020. 

34 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

- Carrion, A. and Kolay, M. Testing the Bulk Volume Classification Algorithm. 2021. URL `https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3746731` . 

- Chakrabarty, B., Li, B., Nguyen, V., and Van Ness, R. A. Trade classification algorithms for electronic communications network trades. _Journal of Banking and Finance_ , 31(12): 3806–3821, 2007. 

- Chakrabarty, B., Moulton, P. C., and Shkilko, A. Short sales, long sales, and the Lee-Ready trade classification algorithm revisited. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 15(4):467–491, 11 2012. 

- Chakrabarty, B., Pascual, R., and Shkilko, A. Evaluating trade classification algorithms: Bulk volume classification versus the tick rule and the Lee-Ready algorithm. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 25:52–79, 9 2015. 

- Chakravarty, S. and Sarkar, A. Trading Costs in Three U.S. Bond Markets. _The Journal of Fixed Income_ , 13(1), 6 2003. 

- Dick-Nielsen, J. Liquidity biases in trace. _Journal of Fixed Income_ , 19(2):43–55, 9 2009. 

- Dick-Nielsen, J. How to Clean Enhanced TRACE Data. _SSRN Electronic Journal_ , 10 2013. 

- Easley, D., L´opez dePrado, M., and O’Hara, M. Flow Toxicity and Liquidity in a Highfrequency World. _The Review of Financial Studies_ , 25(5):1457–1493, 2012. 

- Easley, D., L´opez dePrado, M., and O’Hara, M. Discerning information from trade data. _Journal of Financial Economics_ , 120(2):269–285, 5 2016. 

- Edwards, A. K., Harris, L. E., and Piwowar, M. S. Corporate Bond Market Transaction Costs and Transparency. _The Journal of Finance_ , 62(3):1421–1451, 6 2007. 

- Ellis, K., Michaely, R., and O’Hara, M. The Accuracy of Trade Classification Rules: Evidence from Nasdaq. _The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis_ , 35(4):529–551, 12 2000. 

35 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

- Feldh¨utter, P. The Same Bond at Different Prices: Identifying Search Frictions and Selling Pressures. _The Review of Financial Studies_ , 25(4):1155–1206, 2012. 

- Finucane, T. J. A Direct Test of Methods for Inferring Trade Direction from Intra-Day Data. _The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis_ , 35(4):553–576, 2000. 

- Goldstein, M. A. and Hotchkiss, E. S. Providing liquidity in an illiquid market: Dealer behavior in US corporate bonds. _Journal of Financial Economics_ , 135(1):16–40, 1 2020. 

- Goldstein, M. A., Hotchkiss, E. S., and Sirri, E. R. Transparency and Liquidity: A Controlled Experiment on Corporate Bonds. _Review of Financial Studies_ , 20(2):235–273, 3 2007. 

- Goldstein, M. A., Hotchkiss, E. S., and Nikolova, S. Dealer Behavior and the Trading of Newly Issued Corporate Bonds. 2021. URL `https://ssrn.com/abstract=1022356` . 

- Hasbrouck, J. Trades, quotes, inventories, and information. _Journal of Financial Economics_ , 22(2):229–252, 1988. 

- Hendershott, T. and Jones, C. M. Trade-through prohibitions and market quality. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 8(1):1–23, 2 2005. 

- Hendershott, T. and Madhavan, A. Click or Call? Auction versus Search in the Over-theCounter Market. _The Journal of Finance_ , 70(1):418–447, 2 2015. 

- Hendershott, T. and Moulton, P. C. Automation, speed, and stock market quality: The NYSE’s Hybrid. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 14(4):568–604, 11 2011. 

- Holden, C. W. and Jacobsen, S. Liquidity Measurement Problems in Fast, Competitive Markets: Expensive and Cheap Solutions. _Source: The Journal of Finance_ , 69(4):1747–1785, 2014. 

- Hong, G. and Warga, A. An Empirical Study of Bond Market Transactions. _Financial Analysts Journal_ , 56(2):32–46, 2000. 

36 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

- Hotchkiss, E. and Jostova, G. Determinants of Corporate Bond Trading: A Comprehensive Analysis. _Quarterly Journal of Finance_ , 7(2), 6 2017. 

- Hotchkiss, E. S. and Ronen, T. The Informational Efficiency of the Corporate Bond Market: An Intraday Analysis, 2002. 

- Jain, P. K. Financial Market Design and the Equity Premium: Electronic versus Floor Trading. _The Journal of Finance_ , 60(6):2955–2985, 12 2005. 

- Kedia, S. and Zhou, X. Informed trading around acquisitions: Evidence from corporate bonds. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 18:182–205, 3 2014. 

- Lee, C. M. and Ready, M. J. Inferring trade direction from intraday data. _The Journal of Finance_ , 46(2):733–746, 6 1991. 

- Odders-White, E. On the occurrence and consequences of inaccurate trade classification. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 3:259–286, 2000. 

- O’Hara, M. and Zhou, A. X. The electronic evolution of corporate bond dealers. _Journal of Financial Economics_ , 140(2):368–390, 5 2021a. 

- O’Hara, M. and Zhou, X. A. Anatomy of a Liquidity Crisis: Corporate Bonds in the COVID19 Crisis. _Journal of Financial Economics_ , (forthcoming), 2021b. 

- Panayides, M. A., Shohfi, T. D., and Smith, J. D. Bulk volume classification and information detection. _Journal of Banking & Finance_ , 103:113–129, 6 2019. 

- Peterson, M. and Sirri, E. Evaluation of the biases in execution cost estimation using trade and quote data. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 6(3):259–280, 2003. 

- Pinter, G., Wang, C., and Zou, J. Size Discount and Size Penalty: Trading Costs in Bond Markets. 2021. URL `https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3831348` . 

37 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

- Piwowar, M. S. and Wei, L. The Sensitivity of Effective Spread Estimates to Trade–Quote Matching Algorithms. _Electronic Markets_ , 16(2):112–129, 5 2006. 

- Ronen, T. and Zhou, X. Trade and information in the corporate bond market. _Journal of Financial Markets_ , 16(1):61–103, 2 2013. 

- Rosenthal, D. W. R. Modeling Trade Direction. _Journal of Financial Econometrics_ , 10(2): 390–415, 3 2012. 

- Saunders, A., Srinivasan, A., and Walter, I. Price formation in the OTC corporate bond markets: a field study of the inter-dealer market. _Journal of Economics and Business_ , 54 (1):95–113, 1 2002. 

- Schultz, P. Corporate Bond Trading Costs: A Peek Behind the Curtain. _The Journal of Finance_ , 56(2):677–698, 4 2001. 

- Theissen, E. A test of the accuracy of the Lee/Ready trade classification algorithm. _Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money_ , 11(2):147–165, 2001. 

38 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

## **Tables and Figures** 

Figure 1: **Comparison of Random Forest and Tick Rule Accuracy by Trading Frequency** This figure plots the accuracy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR as a function of the daily number of trades and the time elapsed between trades. Plot (a) shows the accuracy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR as a function of the daily number of trades. Trading frequencies above 100 trades per day are aggregated in the 100 trades per day bucket. Plot (b) shows classifier accuracy by deciles based on the time between trades. Decile 1 (10) comprises the group with the longest (shortest) elapsed time between trades. The average amount of time between trades in decile 1 (10) is 6 days (10 seconds). 

(a) Accuracy by Daily Number of Trades 

(b) Accuracy by Time Elapsed between Trades 

39 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Figure 2: **Comparison of Random Forest and Tick Rule Accuracy by Trading Hour and Day-ofthe-Week** This figure plots the accuracy of RF5 and TR by trading hour and provides the hourly distribution of trade frequency and size by hour. Day-of-week effects on accuracy are also plotted. Plot (a) shows the accuracy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR by daily trading hours. Plot (b) reports the number of trades and average trade size by trading hour. Number of Trades is calculated as the total number of trades per hourly bucket, in thousands. Average Trade Size ($ thousands in par value) is calculated as the average trade size across all bonds trading per hourly bucket. Hours 21, 22 and 23 (EST 9:00PM-11:59PM) are aggregated in the 21-hour bucket. Plot (c) shows the accuracy of RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR by day-of-the-week, and Plot (d) reports the number of trades and average trade size across days-of-the-week. 

- (a) Accuracy by Trading Hour 

   - (b) Hourly Distribution of Trade Size and Frequency 

- (c) Accuracy by Day-of-the-Week 

- (d) Trade Size and Frequency across Days-of-the-Week 

40 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Figure 3: **Intertemporal Comparison of Random Forest and Tick Rule Accuracy by Trade Size** This figure reports prediction accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR across trade sizes over time. Plot (a) reports prediction accuracy rates for RF _{_ 5 _}_ , Plot (b) reports accuracy rates for TR, and Plot (c) reports number of trades by trade size category over time. Trade sizes are classified by $ par-value as: micro ($1 to $100,000), odd-lot ($100K to $1M), round-lot ($1M to $5M), and block ($5M+) trades. 

- (a) RF _{_ 5 _}_ Accuracy by Trade Size over Time 

(b) TR Accuracy by Trade Size over Time 

(c) Number of Trades by Trade Size over Time 

41 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Figure 4: **Comparison of Classifiers Accuracy in the Equity Market by Trading Frequency, Time Between Trades, and Trade Size** This figure plots the accuracy of RF _{_ 7 _}_ , RF _{_ 5 _}_ , LR, and TR by decile, based on different trading characteristics. In Plot (a), deciles are based on daily trading frequency (number of trades per day per stock). The average number of trades per stock in the low (high) decile 1 is 33 (7,094). In Plot (b), deciles are based on the time elapsed between trades. We form deciles 1 (greatest elapsed time) - 9 (lower elapsed time) without trades that occur within 0.000 seconds, which constitute 33% of trades, and comprise decile 10. The average amount of time elapsed between trades in the low (high) decile is 970 seconds (0.000 seconds). In Plot (c), deciles are based on trade size. We form deciles 1 (low) - 9 (high) without trades sizes of 100, which constitute 50% of trades, and are shown as decile 10. The average trade size in the low (high) decile is 1.9 shares (1,237 shares). 

**==> picture [157 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
(a) Accuracy by Trading Frequency<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


(b) Accuracy by Time Elapsed Between Trades 

(c) Accuracy by Trade Size 

42 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

|**Information**||||||||LR Small Trades:<br>Accuracy _↓_<br>after (23) bad<br>earnings<br>announcements|||||||OI & order fow<br>toxicity (VPIN) as<br>proxy for informed<br>trade;<br>All rules similar<br>in explaining<br>returns & liquidity;<br>LR&TR _>_ BVC<br>in VPIN.|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Trade**<br>**frequency**|||||LR: Accuracy _↑_<br>for slower<br>trade|||LR: Accuracy _↑_<br>for slower<br>trades &<br>lower # trades||||||||
|**Trade size**||||TR: Accuracy _↑_<br>for larger size|LR: Accuracy _↓_<br>for larger size|All: Accuracy _↓_<br>for larger size||LR: Mixed;<br>depending on<br>inside/outside<br>quotes||All (but TR):<br>Accuracy _↓_<br>for larger size.|||LR: Accuracy _↓_<br>for larger size|||
|**Rule/Accuracy**|Develops QR|Develops QR|Develops LR;<br>LR: 90.9%|TR: 74.4%|Develops EMO Rule;<br>QR: 76.4%; TR: 77.66% ; LR: 81.05%;<br>EMO: 81.9%|TR: 83%, LR: 84.4%|LR: 93% (single-participant trades)|QR: 75.0%; TR: 78.8% ; LR 85.0%|TR:72.2% (frm-level); LR:72.8%|Develops a new rule,<br>LR 74.42%; TR 75.40%; EMO 75.80%;<br>New Rule 76.52%|Develops new rule,<br>TR 66.2%; LR 72.1%; EMO 72.8%;<br>New Rule 74.7%|TR: 24.3%; QR: 30.3%; LR: 33.4%;|LR (contemporaneous): 68.2%-69.2%<br>LR (lagged 1s): 78.3%-78.6%|Propose new approach to classify buy and sell volume;<br>Develops (bulk) volume-synchronized probability of<br>informed trading classifcation rule volume|Time Bars: BVC 64.9-79.7% ; Bulk TR 77.5-95.5%;<br>Bulk LR 80.0%-95.4%<br>Volume Bars: BVC 71.1-78.1%; Bulk TR 81.3-93.5%;<br>Bulk LR 84.3-94.7%<br>Trade Bars: BVC 58.5- 79.0%; Bulk TR 79.1-95.2%;<br>Bulk LR 82.1-96.1%|
|**Data Cuts**|||All non-opening trades<br>for which there was<br>no quote change<br>in the last 5 seconds;|Excludes trades<br>facilitated by dealers|Shortly after IPOs|Discards 25% of trades:<br>All sides must be<br>identifed|Discards 40% of trades:<br>Cannot classify<br>non-directional trades|Discards 25% of trades:<br>True initiator<br>is unknown||All ECN trades<br>with 4-letter tickers<br>& Price _>_$5|Discards Trades<br>Outside 10AM-3:30PM|Short Sales Only|Short and Long Sales<br>100 pilot stocks<br>100 non-pilot stocks||Small, mid & large<br>common stocks<br>price _>_1$ _>_ 10 trades per day|
|**Sample time**<br>**period**|2 months<br>March, April 1985|2 days<br>10/19/1987<br>& 10/20/1987|During 1988|2 years<br>6/30/92-6/30/94|Varying lengths<br>9/1996 - 9/1997|3 months<br>11/1990 - 1/1991|3 months<br>11/1990 - 1/1991|3 months<br>11/1990 - 1/1991|21 days<br>9/26/96-10/25/96|2 months<br>4/1/05-5/31/2005|2 days<br>12/1/04-12/2/04|3 months<br>3,6,12 of 2005|3 months<br>5,6,12 of 2005|43 months<br>1/1/08-8/1/2011|3 months<br>05/2011-07/2011|
|**Sample**|1,497 NYSE<br>issues|Bridge data<br>S&P500 stocks|ISSM<br>150 NYSE frms|Australian Stock<br>Exchange,<br>4,022,339 trades;|Nasdaq<br>313 stocks<br>1,833,729 trades|TORQ<br>144 NYSE stocks<br>285,983 trades|TORQ<br>144 NYSE stocks<br>295,551 trades|TORQ<br>144 NYSE stocks<br>318,364 trades|Frankfurt Stock<br>Exchange<br>15 stocks,<br>9,124 trades|INET and ArcaEx<br>NASDAQ stocks.<br>750 stocks|Archipelago<br>2,836 stocks<br>2,178,307 trades|TAQ<br>NYSE/NASDAQ<br>200 stocks<br>3,587,468 sells|Reg SHO/INET<br>200 stocks|2 futures contracts:<br>E-mini S&P 500<br>Oil|TotalView-ITCH;<br>DTAQ<br>NASDAQ<br>300 stocks|
|**Research**|Hasbrouck<br>1988|Blume,<br>MacKinlay,<br>Terker<br>1989|Lee,<br>Ready<br>1991|Aitken,<br>Frino<br>1996|Ellis,<br>Michaely,<br>O’Hara<br>2000|Finucane<br>2000|Lee,<br>Radhakrishna<br>2000|Odders-White<br>2000|Theissen<br>2001|Chakrabarty,<br>Li, Nguyen,<br>Van Ness<br>2007|Rosenthal<br>2008|Asquith,<br>Oman,<br>Safaya<br>2010|Chakrabarty,<br>Moulton,<br>Shkilko<br>2012|Easley,<br>Lopez de Prado,<br>O’Hara<br>2012|Chakrabarty,<br>Pascual,<br>Shkilko<br>2015|



43 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

|**Information**|OI as proxy for<br>informed trade;<br>BVC _>_ TR<br>in capturing<br>informed trade|Event-based<br>Spread regressions<br>analyzing OI<br>proxy; BVC _>_<br>LR&TR in capturing<br>informed trade|OI as proxy for<br>informed trade;<br>LR (millisecond)<br>most correlated<br>with true<br>imbalance|OI as proxy for<br>informed trade<br>BVC OI measure<br>underperforms<br>conventional<br>measures.|Directly test<br>accuracy rates<br>around earnings<br>announcements<br>RF most sensitive<br>to information<br>uncertainty||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Trade**<br>**frequency**|||||RF: Accuracy _↓_<br>for slower<br>trades &<br>lower # trades|RF_{_5_}_ & TR:<br>Accuracy _↓_for<br>lower # trades|
|**Trade size**|||All: Accuracy _↑_<br>for larger size||All: Accuracy _↓_<br>for larger size||
|**Rule/Accuracy**|TR (Trade-Based): 67.2–86.4%<br>BVC (Time): 64.9-90.3%<br>BVC (Volume): 82.6-94.5%<br>Bulk TR (Time): 70.4-93.4%<br>Bulk TR (Volume): 87.4- 97.3%|LSE:<br>BVC (Time): 60.3- 87.1%<br>BVC (Volume): 53.2-75.7%<br>Bulk TR (Time): 39.9-83.8%<br>Bulk TR (Volume):39.7-65.9%<br>Bulk LR (Time):46- 77.8%<br>Bulk LR (Volume):46.2-57.1%|LR (Holden and Jacobsen 2014): 76.1%;<br>TR 78.6%, LR (1 sec) 86.9%<br>LR (millisecond) 93.6%|Examines ability of classifers to measure informed trading.|Develops machine learning rule (RF_{_5_}_)<br>Trade-Based: TR:69.3%, RF_{_5_}_:77.6%<br>Bulk (Time):BVC: 55.3%-59.9%; Bulk TR:66.4%-67.8%;<br>Bulk RF_{_5_}_:70.2%- 72.6%<br>Bulk (Volume):BVC 57.1%- 66.9%; Bulk TR: 65.2%- 67.8%;<br>Bulk RF_{_5_}_:68.1%-72.6%<br>Bulk (Trade):BVC:59.3%- 66.9%; Bulk TR:65.0%-66.1%;<br>Bulk RF_{_5_}_:69.4%-72.6%|LR 74.0%; TR 74.3%; RF_{_5_}_ 74.6%;<br>RF_{_7_}_: 77.6%|
|||Euronext:<br>BVC (Time): 58.7- 89.7%<br>BVC (Volume): 62.6- 87.9%<br>Bulk TR (Time): 79.3- 95.5%<br>Bulk TR (Volume):79.9- 92.4%<br>Bulk LR (Time): 78.1- 94.9%<br>Bulk LR (Volume):78.6-92.3%|||||
|**Data Cuts**||Selected small,<br>mid,& large stocks|||All corporate bonds;<br>price _>_1$||
|**Sample time**<br>**period**|12 months<br>11/7/2010-<br>11/6/2011|Euronext:<br>3 months<br>4/07, 2/08, 4/08<br>LSE: 2 months<br>2/17, 4/17|49 days<br>(2008-2010)|49 days<br>(2008-2010)|17.5 years<br>07/01/02-<br>12/31/19|5 days<br>12/09/13-<br>12/13/13|
|**Sample**|3 futures contracts:<br>E-mini S&P 500,<br>Gold, & Oil<br>235,170,136 trades|Euronext & LSE<br>225 stocks|NASDAQ HFT<br>120 stocks<br>61,271,087 trades|NASDAQ HFT<br>120 stocks<br>61,271,087 trades|TRACE Bonds<br>26,079 bonds<br>5,449 issuers<br>59,754,556 trades|TotalView-ITCH;<br>DTAQ<br>1,949 stocks<br>1,277,404 trades|
|**Research**|Easley,<br>Lopez de Prado,<br>O’Hara<br>2016|Panayides,<br>Shohf,<br>Smith<br>2019|Carrion,<br>Kolay<br>2020|Carrion,<br>Kolay<br>2021|Fedenia,<br>Nam,<br>Ronen<br>2021||



44 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 2: **Descriptive Statistics for the TRACE Sample** This table provides descriptive statistics for all corporate bonds trading from July 1, 2002 to December 31, 2019, and disseminated on the Enhanced Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (TRACE). Panel A provides a breakdown of the number of bonds trading over this period as well as statistics regarding the trading frequencies and volumes across bonds and days, and Panel B provides trading statistics across bonds in investment grade and high-yield rating categories. Price is expressed as a percentage of par; Trade Size is par value of bonds traded; Yield is the yield as reported TRACE yield; Buy Trade Size is the trade size of buyer-initiated trades; Sell Trade Size is the trade size of seller-initiated trades. Trades per Bonds per Day is the average number of trades per day across bonds. Bonds Traded per Day is the number of bonds traded per day in our sample. Volume per Bond/Day is the daily volume per bond. Panel C reports the breakdown of bond trading frequency by deciles. Standard and Poor’s (S&P) bond ratings are obtained from the Mergent Fixed Income Securities Database (FISD). 

Panel A. Transaction Statistics (for the sample of 26,079 bond issues) 

|Variable|N|Mean|Median|Std Dev|1%|99%|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Price|59,754,556|100.51|101.25|15.65|41.96|130.25|
|Yield (%)|55,734,308|7.15|4.75|488.19|0.62|31.03|
|Trade Size|59,754,556|802,359|45,000|7,708,352|2,000|10,000,000|
|Buy Trade Size|34,785,513|685,365|35,000|7,193,669|2,000|10,000,000|
|Sell Trade Size|24,969,043|965,348|50,000|8,370,079|1,000|12,000,000|
|Trades per Bond per Day|14,950,631|4.00|2.00|7.69|1.00|29.00|
|Bonds Traded per Day|4,779|3,128|3,087|1,384|1|5,549|
|Volume per Bond/Day|14,950,631|3,206,861|385,000|19,171,279|3,000|40,000,000|



Panel B. Transactions by Rating Category 

|Panel B. Transactions by Rating Category|||
|---|---|---|
|All trades<br>Bonds<br>N<br>Size|SELL initiated trades<br>N<br>Size|BUY Initiated trades<br>N<br>Size|
|Investment Grade<br>25,915,792<br>804,952<br>10,666,070<br>964,246<br>15,249,722<br>689,794<br>High-Yield<br>29,110,407<br>764,858<br>12,214,509<br>929,940<br>16,895,898<br>649,395<br>Not rated<br>4,728,357<br>991,932<br>2,088,464<br>1,152,628<br>2,639,893<br>864,803<br>All<br>59,754,556<br>802,359<br>24,969,043<br>965,348<br>34,785,513<br>685,365|||



Panel C. Frequency of Transactions 

|Decile<br>days traded<br>per year<br>1<br>4<br>2<br>15<br>3<br>30<br>4<br>49<br>5<br>72<br>6<br>99<br>7<br>131<br>8<br>168<br>9<br>209<br>10<br>243|Decile<br>trades<br>per year|
|---|---|
||1<br>6<br>2<br>23<br>3<br>49<br>4<br>83<br>5<br>129<br>6<br>192<br>7<br>287<br>8<br>439<br>9<br>731<br>10<br>2,134|



45 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 3: **Descriptive Statistics for the 50+ Sample** This table provides descriptive statistics for all corporate bonds trading in the 50+ sub-sample from July 1, 2002 to December 31, 2019, and disseminated on the Enhanced Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (TRACE). The 50+ sample includes all trades (on a given day) in any bond that trades 50 times or more (on that day). Panel A provides a breakdown of the number of bonds trading over this period as well as statistics regarding the trading frequencies and volumes across bonds and days, and Panel B provides trading statistics across bonds in investment grade and high-yield rating categories. Price is expressed as a percentage of par; Trade Size is par value of bonds traded; Yield is the yield as reported TRACE yield; Buy Trade Size is the trade size of buyer-initiated trades; Sell Trade Size is the trade size of seller-initiated trades. Trades per Bonds per Day is the average number of trades per day across bonds. Bonds Traded per Day is the number of bonds traded per day in our sample. Volume per Bond/Day is the daily volume per bond. Standard and Poor’s (S&P) bond ratings are obtained from the Mergent Fixed Income Securities Database (FISD). 

Panel A. Transaction Statistics (for the sample of 6,397 bond issues) 

|Variable|N|Mean|Median|Std Dev|1%|99%|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Price|4,425,689|96.32|99.34|21.65|41.15|113.15|
|Yield (%)|3,972,321|10.59|6.85|585.56|2.25|49.49|
|Trade Size|4,425,689|471,059|20,000|5,591,756|1,000|10,000,000|
|Buy Trade Size|3,268,151|311,613|20,000|4,076,757|1,000|5,500,000|
|Sell Trade Size|1,157,538|921,234|35,000|8,505,844|1,000|10,000,000|
|Trades per Bond per Day|50,715|87|68|64|50|336|
|Bonds traded per day|4,267|12|10|9.5|1|45|
|Volume per bond/day|50,715|41,107|11,786|125,119|736|360,124|



Panel B. Transactions by Rating Category 

|Panel B. Transactions by Rating Category|||
|---|---|---|
|All trades<br>Bonds<br>N<br>Size|SELL initiated trades<br>N<br>Size|BUY Initiated trades<br>N<br>Size|
|Investment Grade<br>1,475,652<br>443,076<br>High Yield<br>2,625,449<br>375,099<br>Not rated<br>324,588<br>1,133,654<br>All<br>4,425,689<br>471,059|238,233<br>1,208,827<br>1,237,419<br>214,586<br>788,679<br>734,531<br>1,836,770<br>317,930<br>130,626<br>1,523,977<br>193,962<br>870,787<br>1,157,538<br>921,234<br>3,268,151<br>311,613||



46 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 4: **Model Feature Sets** This table describes the feature used in sets 1-7. 

|Feature<br>Description<br>Categories|Feature set|
|---|---|
||_{_1_}_<br>_{_2_}_<br>_{_3_}_<br>_{_4_}_<br>_{_5_}_<br>_{_6_}_<br>_{_7_}_|
|Buy/Sell fag<br>predicted<br>TRACE bond symbol<br>identifer<br>ticker<br>identifer<br>Price<br>price<br>Price lag 1<br>price<br>Price lag 2<br>price<br>Price lag 3<br>price<br>Price lag 4<br>price<br>Price lag 5<br>price<br>Trade execution date<br>time<br>Trade hour<br>time<br>Trade minute<br>time<br>Trade second<br>time<br>Trade month<br>time<br>Trade day<br>time<br>Trade year<br>time<br>Trade quarter<br>time<br>Weekday of trade<br>time<br>Volume<br>volume<br>Volume lag 1<br>volume<br>Volume lag 2<br>volume<br>Volume lag 3<br>volume<br>Volume lag 4<br>volume<br>Volume lag 5<br>volume<br>Tick rule indicator<br>Tick<br>Yield direction<br>trace<br>Yield<br>trace<br>Sale condition<br>trace<br>Sale condition modifer<br>trace<br>Comission<br>trace<br>Sub-product type<br>trace<br>Contra party type<br>trace<br>Bond type<br>FISD<br>FISD issuer ID<br>FISD<br>Ofering amount reported in FIDS<br>FISD<br>Rule 144A indicator<br>FISD<br>S&P rating<br>FISD<br>Investment Grade indicator<br>FISD<br>S&P rating<br>FISD<br>Noise<br>clean<br>Delay in reporting<br>clean<br>First time on Trace<br>trade<br>daily frst transaction indicator<br>trade<br>Elapsed time since last price change<br>trade<br>Elapsed time since last trade<br>trade<br>Running mean of price<br>running stat<br>Running standard deviation of price<br>running stat<br>Running lowest price<br>running stat<br>Running highest price<br>running stat<br>Running total number of trades<br>running stat<br>CDF of time bar (1 day)<br>running stat<br>CDF of trade bar (1 trade)<br>running stat<br>CDF of volume bar ($100,000)<br>running stat<br>20 trade moving average price<br>rolling stat<br>20 trade moving std dev of price<br>rolling stat<br>20 trade moving low of price<br>rolling stat<br>20 trade moving high of price<br>rolling stat<br>20 trade moving mid-point of price<br>rolling stat<br>20 trade moving percentile of price<br>rolling stat<br>daily last transaction indicator<br>forward looking<br>daily low<br>forward looking<br>daily high<br>forward looking<br>High indicator<br>forward looking<br>Low indicatior<br>forward looking<br>High / Low<br>forward looking<br>daily number of trade<br>forward looking<br>Bid<br>quote<br>Ask<br>quote<br>Quote rule indicator<br>quote<br>Quote mid-point<br>quote|✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓<br>✓|



47 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 5: **Out-of-bag Accuracy of Various Models and Algorithms** This table documents the out-of-bag (OOB) percent accuracy of a Random Forest model with feature sets _{_ 1 _}_ - _{_ 6 _}_ , a Neural Network model, and Logit model both with feature set _{_ 4 _}_ . The Random Forest, is trained on rolling 3 year data slices where 70% of the data in each slice is assigned randomly to the training set. Then, the accuracy is tabulated with 30% of the remaining observations. Also, we present the accuracy of Tick Rule (TR) in the same period. The Neural Network uses the same data slices for training with 15% used for model validation, and the remaining 15% is tabulated for accuracy in the table. The Logit model uses the same sampling procedure as the Random Forest. All feature sets are defined in in Table 4. 

|Training<br>Total<br>OOB<br>Period<br>Trades<br>Testing|Neural<br>Tick<br>Random Forest<br>Network<br>Logit<br>Rule|
|---|---|
||RF_{_1_}_<br>RF_{_2_}_<br>RF_{_3_}_<br>RF_{_4_}_<br>RF_{_5_}_<br>RF_{_6_}_<br>NN_{_4_}_<br>LG_{_4_}_<br>TR|
|2002-04<br>7,180,185<br>2,154,056<br>2003-05<br>7,824,232<br>2,347,270<br>2004-06<br>6,687,615<br>2,006,285<br>2005-07<br>6,019,122<br>1,805,737<br>2006-08<br>6,002,930<br>1,800,879<br>2007-09<br>7,879,274<br>2,363,782<br>2008-10<br>9,535,223<br>2,860,567<br>2009-11<br>10,407,802<br>3,122,341<br>2010-12<br>10,035,177<br>3,010,553<br>2011-13<br>10,287,379<br>3,086,214<br>2012-14<br>10,727,701<br>3,218,310<br>2013-15<br>11,109,528<br>3,332,858<br>2014-16<br>12,004,236<br>3,601,271<br>2015-17<br>13,017,499<br>3,905,250<br>2016-18<br>14,001,387<br>4,200,416|76.2<br>76.6<br>77.0<br>79.9<br>79.3<br>81.0<br>74.1<br>62.1<br>66.9<br>75.8<br>76.2<br>76.7<br>79.9<br>79.4<br>80.8<br>73.3<br>60.9<br>67.6<br>75.4<br>75.8<br>76.4<br>79.8<br>79.1<br>80.5<br>75.2<br>51.0<br>68.5<br>75.5<br>75.9<br>76.9<br>80.2<br>79.6<br>80.9<br>74.4<br>61.0<br>69.1<br>77.4<br>77.7<br>78.6<br>81.7<br>81.1<br>82.5<br>75.3<br>64.3<br>69.0<br>80.2<br>80.4<br>81.3<br>84.1<br>83.7<br>85.0<br>80.0<br>69.4<br>68.1<br>80.4<br>80.5<br>81.7<br>84.5<br>84.1<br>85.6<br>81.4<br>68.4<br>68.0<br>79.4<br>79.4<br>80.8<br>83.9<br>83.3<br>84.7<br>77.7<br>65.9<br>68.1<br>78.1<br>78.0<br>79.5<br>82.9<br>82.3<br>83.8<br>76.7<br>64.0<br>68.8<br>77.7<br>77.5<br>79.0<br>82.1<br>81.5<br>83.2<br>77.7<br>67.9<br>69.2<br>77.1<br>77.1<br>78.2<br>81.4<br>80.9<br>82.4<br>75.7<br>68.3<br>69.5<br>75.9<br>75.9<br>76.6<br>79.9<br>79.3<br>80.8<br>74.6<br>67.5<br>69.5<br>75.6<br>75.6<br>76.5<br>79.2<br>78.8<br>80.3<br>74.2<br>67.5<br>69.7<br>75.7<br>75.7<br>76.6<br>79.0<br>78.6<br>80.1<br>75.1<br>68.1<br>69.9<br>75.8<br>75.7<br>76.4<br>78.7<br>78.4<br>79.8<br>74.5<br>68.0<br>70.2|
|All<br>142,719,190<br>42,815,757|77.1<br>77.2<br>78.1<br>81.1<br>80.6<br>82.1<br>76.0<br>64.9<br>68.8|



48 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 6: **Out-of-sample Forecast Accuracy of Various Models and Algorithms** This table documents the out of sample prediction accuracy of a Random Forest model with feature sets _{_ 1 _}_ - _{_ 6 _}_ , a Neural Network model, and Logit model both with feature set _{_ 4 _}_ . Panel A shows the forecast accuracy for the year following the training period. Panel B shows forecast accuracy for the 3-year period following the training period. The Random Forest, is trained on rolling 3 year data slices where 70% of the data in each slice is assigned randomly to the training set. Then, the accuracy is tabulated with 30% of the remaining observations. Also, we present the accuracy of Tick Rule (TR) in the same period. The Neural Network uses the same data slices for training with 15% used for model validation, and the remaining 15% is tabulated for accuracy in the table. The Logit model uses the same sampling procedure as the Random Forest. All feature sets are defined in in Table 4. 

Panel A: Short Forecast Accuracy 

|Training<br>Total<br>Period<br>Trades|Neural<br>Tick<br>Random Forest<br>Network<br>Logit<br>Rule|
|---|---|
||RF_{_1_}_<br>RF_{_2_}_<br>RF_{_3_}_<br>RF_{_4_}_<br>RF_{_5_}_<br>RF_{_6_}_<br>NN_{_4_}_<br>LG_{_4_}_<br>TR|
|2005<br>2,313,212<br>2006<br>1,961,166<br>2007<br>1,744,744<br>2008<br>2,297,020<br>2009<br>3,837,510<br>2010<br>3,400,693<br>2011<br>3,169,599<br>2012<br>3,464,885<br>2013<br>3,652,895<br>2014<br>3,609,921<br>2015<br>3,846,712<br>2016<br>4,547,603<br>2017<br>4,623,184<br>2018<br>4,830,600<br>2019<br>5,274,627|70.6<br>71.3<br>72.2<br>76.1<br>75.5<br>77.1<br>70.3<br>58.0<br>68.6<br>70.1<br>71.0<br>71.9<br>76.4<br>75.4<br>77.5<br>67.2<br>58.3<br>69.3<br>72.1<br>72.6<br>74.5<br>77.5<br>77.2<br>78.7<br>73.5<br>43.2<br>69.6<br>74.4<br>74.4<br>77.2<br>80.6<br>80.1<br>82.4<br>76.0<br>69.2<br>68.3<br>76.7<br>76.6<br>79.2<br>82.9<br>82.8<br>84.2<br>77.4<br>69.9<br>67.4<br>71.3<br>71.9<br>73.3<br>79.4<br>79.2<br>80.2<br>75.1<br>60.6<br>68.6<br>74.0<br>74.3<br>76.3<br>79.4<br>78.9<br>80.5<br>72.5<br>62.9<br>68.5<br>75.2<br>75.5<br>77.1<br>80.4<br>80.3<br>81.5<br>59.2<br>61.1<br>69.3<br>73.2<br>73.7<br>74.9<br>78.2<br>78.0<br>79.5<br>74.3<br>59.6<br>69.6<br>73.1<br>73.7<br>74.6<br>77.5<br>77.3<br>78.6<br>74.1<br>65.5<br>69.5<br>72.9<br>73.4<br>74.1<br>76.8<br>76.8<br>77.9<br>64.8<br>66.7<br>69.3<br>74.0<br>74.2<br>75.3<br>77.5<br>77.6<br>78.7<br>74.3<br>67.2<br>70.1<br>74.0<br>74.2<br>75.2<br>77.2<br>77.2<br>78.3<br>73.9<br>65.6<br>70.2<br>73.0<br>73.4<br>73.4<br>76.1<br>76.0<br>77.2<br>73.5<br>66.2<br>70.3<br>71.2<br>71.7<br>71.8<br>73.7<br>73.9<br>75.2<br>70.2<br>64.9<br>69.3|
|All<br>52,574,371|73.2<br>73.6<br>74.7<br>77.8<br>77.6<br>79.0<br>72.3<br>63.7<br>69.3|



Panel B: Long Forecast Accuracy 

|Panel B: Long Forecast|Accuracy|
|---|---|
|Training<br>Total<br>Period<br>Trades|Neural<br>Tick<br>Random Forest<br>Network<br>Logit<br>Rule|
||RF_{_1_}_<br>RF_{_2_}_<br>RF_{_3_}_<br>RF_{_4_}_<br>RF_{_5_}_<br>RF_{_6_}_<br>NN_{_4_}_<br>LG_{_4_}_<br>TR|
|2005-07<br>6,019,122<br>2006-08<br>6,002,930<br>2007-09<br>7,879,274<br>2008-10<br>9,535,223<br>2009-11<br>10,407,802<br>2010-12<br>10,035,177<br>2011-13<br>10,287,379<br>2012-14<br>10,727,701<br>2013-15<br>11,109,528<br>2014-16<br>12,004,236<br>2015-17<br>13,017,499<br>2016-08<br>14,001,387<br>2017-19<br>14,728,411|68.9<br>69.8<br>70.8<br>74.6<br>74.1<br>76.2<br>66.8<br>58.2<br>69.1<br>71.6<br>72.1<br>73.6<br>77.1<br>77.1<br>78.6<br>59.5<br>63.2<br>69.0<br>72.5<br>72.4<br>75.1<br>78.5<br>78.5<br>80.8<br>72.0<br>37.4<br>68.1<br>73.6<br>73.4<br>76.6<br>79.3<br>78.5<br>81.2<br>70.8<br>66.0<br>68.0<br>72.5<br>73.1<br>74.1<br>79.1<br>79.6<br>80.4<br>69.7<br>63.8<br>68.1<br>70.3<br>71.2<br>72.1<br>78.6<br>78.4<br>79.6<br>69.3<br>60.7<br>68.8<br>73.3<br>73.9<br>75.1<br>78.5<br>78.4<br>79.8<br>62.0<br>60.1<br>69.2<br>73.1<br>73.6<br>74.7<br>77.7<br>77.7<br>78.9<br>56.8<br>58.7<br>69.5<br>72.2<br>72.8<br>73.7<br>76.7<br>76.5<br>78.0<br>70.3<br>59.8<br>69.5<br>72.9<br>73.4<br>74.3<br>76.7<br>76.7<br>78.0<br>67.0<br>65.2<br>69.7<br>73.3<br>73.7<br>74.6<br>76.8<br>76.9<br>77.9<br>60.2<br>66.7<br>69.9<br>73.2<br>73.5<br>74.1<br>76.5<br>76.6<br>77.6<br>73.6<br>65.6<br>70.2<br>72.3<br>72.7<br>73.0<br>75.3<br>75.4<br>76.5<br>72.1<br>64.3<br>69.9|
|All<br>135,755,669|72.4<br>72.8<br>73.9<br>77.0<br>77.0<br>78.3<br>68.1<br>61.9<br>69.3|



49 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 7: **Feature Importance Assessed in Out-of-sample Accuracy** This table shows the incremental out-of-sample prediction accuracy provided by each of the feature sets used in our models. Panel A presents the the out-of-sample short forecast accuracy for the RF model using the different feature sets (RF _{_ 1 _}_ , RF _{_ 2 _}_ , RF _{_ 3 _}_ , RF _{_ 4 _}_ , RF _{_ 5 _}_ , and RF _{_ 6 _}_ , and reports the incremental accuracy provided by each specific feature set ( _{_ 1 _}_ - _{_ 6 _}_ ). Panel B reports the incremental accuracy provided by each of the salient features embedded within the feature sets. 

Panel A Incremental Accuracy of Feature Sets 

|Panel A Incremental Accuracy of Feature Sets|||
|---|---|---|
|**Feature Set**|**RF**<br>**Accuracy**|**Incremental**<br>**Accuracy**<br>**over RF****_{_1****_}_**|
|_{_1_}_: Price and Time|73.2%||
|_{_2_}_: Price, Time and Volume|73.6%|0.4%|
|_{_3_}_: Price, Time and Tick Rule|74.7%|1.5%|
|_{_4_}_: _{_2_}_ + Tick Rule + bond market data + calculated metrics|77.8%|4.6%|
|_{_5_}_: _{_4_}_ – bond market data|77.5%|4.4%|
|_{_6_}_: _{_4_}_ + forward looking data|79.0%|5.8%|



Panel B Incremental Accuracy of Features 

|Panel B Incremental Accuracy of Features||
|---|---|
|**Feature**|**Incremental**<br>**Accuracy**|
|Volume|0.4%|
|Tick Rule|1.5%|
|Calculated metrics|2.4%|
|Bond market data|0.3%|
|Forward looking data|1.2%|



50 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 8: **Out-of-sample Forecast Accuracy of Various Models and Algorithms in the 50+ Sample** This table shows the out-of-sample prediction accuracy in percent in the 50+ sub-sample, which includes all trades (on a given day) in any bond that trades 50 times or more (on that day). The specifications include the Random Forest model with feature sets _{_ 1 _}_ - _{_ 6 _}_ , a Neural Network model, and Logit model both with feature set _{_ 4 _}_ . Panel A shows the forecast accuracy for the year following the training period. Panel B shows forecast accuracy for the 3-year period following the training period. The Random Forest, is trained on rolling 3 year data slices where 70% of the data in each slice is assigned randomly to the training set. Then, the accuracy is tabulated with 30% of the remaining observations. Also, we present the accuracy of Tick Rule (TR) in the same period. The Neural Network uses the same data slices for training with 15% used for model validation, and the remaining 15% is tabulated for accuracy in the table. The Logit model uses the same sampling procedure as the Random Forest. All feature sets are defined in in Table 4. 

Panel A: Short Forecast Accuracy 

|Training<br>Total<br>Period<br>Trades|Neural<br>Tick<br>Random Forest<br>Network<br>Logit<br>Rule|
|---|---|
||RF_{_1_}_<br>RF_{_2_}_<br>RF_{_3_}_<br>RF_{_4_}_<br>RF_{_5_}_<br>RF_{_6_}_<br>NN_{_4_}_<br>LG_{_4_}_<br>TR|
|2005<br>313,979<br>2006<br>69,094<br>2007<br>70,947<br>2008<br>279,819<br>2009<br>526,600<br>2010<br>273,445<br>2011<br>192,690<br>2012<br>331,926<br>2013<br>254,792<br>2014<br>212,628<br>2015<br>140,898<br>2016<br>197,890<br>2017<br>156,164<br>2018<br>97,267<br>2019<br>148,517|76.5<br>75.9<br>78.6<br>81.7<br>81.3<br>82.3<br>75.4<br>63.6<br>64.9<br>68.8<br>69.4<br>72.3<br>77.7<br>77.8<br>81.0<br>71.8<br>66.8<br>66.0<br>70.7<br>72.8<br>77.7<br>80.2<br>79.5<br>84.5<br>76.4<br>23.4<br>69.5<br>76.3<br>74.8<br>82.5<br>85.3<br>83.6<br>90.7<br>82.1<br>81.0<br>64.4<br>84.7<br>83.7<br>89.2<br>89.5<br>88.5<br>91.4<br>87.4<br>82.8<br>61.4<br>77.4<br>77.4<br>81.2<br>83.4<br>83.4<br>83.5<br>77.4<br>72.8<br>62.1<br>75.7<br>75.8<br>81.7<br>81.8<br>81.0<br>83.8<br>72.0<br>70.5<br>60.7<br>77.9<br>78.3<br>81.6<br>84.0<br>83.8<br>84.8<br>77.2<br>73.9<br>62.8<br>74.2<br>75.1<br>77.6<br>81.1<br>81.1<br>82.7<br>72.6<br>70.3<br>62.2<br>71.6<br>73.0<br>76.2<br>80.1<br>80.6<br>81.7<br>71.4<br>70.4<br>63.8<br>68.3<br>68.4<br>73.7<br>74.9<br>75.4<br>76.6<br>69.9<br>67.7<br>62.7<br>70.2<br>70.7<br>74.7<br>75.7<br>76.0<br>77.1<br>70.4<br>67.3<br>63.5<br>69.1<br>69.1<br>72.8<br>73.7<br>73.7<br>75.4<br>68.2<br>64.6<br>63.0<br>66.0<br>66.0<br>70.7<br>70.7<br>71.6<br>71.7<br>65.7<br>65.6<br>60.8<br>65.7<br>65.7<br>69.5<br>73.7<br>75.1<br>75.8<br>67.4<br>66.4<br>63.7|
|All<br>3,266,656|75.3<br>73.6<br>79.6<br>81.7<br>81.4<br>83.5<br>76.0<br>71.2<br>63.0|



Panel B: Long Forecast Accuracy 

|Training<br>Total<br>Period<br>Trades|Neural<br>Tick<br>Random Forest<br>Network<br>Logit<br>Rule|
|---|---|
||RF_{_1_}_<br>RF_{_2_}_<br>RF_{_3_}_<br>RF_{_4_}_<br>RF_{_5_}_<br>RF_{_6_}_<br>NN_{_4_}_<br>LG_{_4_}_<br>TR|
|2005-07<br>454,020<br>2006-08<br>419,860<br>2007-09<br>877,366<br>2008-10<br>1,079,864<br>2009-11<br>992,735<br>2010-12<br>798,061<br>2011-13<br>779,408<br>2012-14<br>799,346<br>2013-15<br>608,318<br>2014-16<br>551,416<br>2015-17<br>494,952<br>2016-08<br>451,321<br>2017-19<br>401,948|75.2<br>75.1<br>78.1<br>81.3<br>81.0<br>82.2<br>74.7<br>65.4<br>65.8<br>72.9<br>72.6<br>77.4<br>78.9<br>81.3<br>84.2<br>56.7<br>78.3<br>65.5<br>70.6<br>69.6<br>75.3<br>77.9<br>77.6<br>86.2<br>85.3<br>17.7<br>63.0<br>73.4<br>71.8<br>79.0<br>80.5<br>77.6<br>86.5<br>78.1<br>77.4<br>62.3<br>80.2<br>79.6<br>84.8<br>85.0<br>84.3<br>86.7<br>82.4<br>76.3<br>61.4<br>77.1<br>77.3<br>80.9<br>82.1<br>82.2<br>82.8<br>75.6<br>68.9<br>62.1<br>75.3<br>75.9<br>79.8<br>81.4<br>81.3<br>82.9<br>73.3<br>71.8<br>62.1<br>75.0<br>75.6<br>78.5<br>81.0<br>81.0<br>81.7<br>74.0<br>70.7<br>62.9<br>72.4<br>73.3<br>76.3<br>78.9<br>79.1<br>80.2<br>67.1<br>68.1<br>62.9<br>69.9<br>70.8<br>74.9<br>77.2<br>77.8<br>78.5<br>58.2<br>67.9<br>63.4<br>68.9<br>68.9<br>73.8<br>74.9<br>75.5<br>76.2<br>67.5<br>66.7<br>63.1<br>69.2<br>69.1<br>73.4<br>73.9<br>73.9<br>74.8<br>67.7<br>65.5<br>62.7<br>68.4<br>67.9<br>72.4<br>72.8<br>73.0<br>73.7<br>67.4<br>65.2<br>62.7|
|All<br>8,708,615|73.6<br>72.8<br>78.0<br>79.6<br>79.1<br>82.3<br>73.4<br>65.7<br>62.7|



51 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 9: **Classifier Accuracy by Trade Size, Ratings, and Pre-negotiated Trades** Panel A of this table shows the out-of-sample accuracy rates of RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR across trade size and rating categories. Trade sizes are classified as micro ($1 to $100,000), odd-lot ($100,000 to $1m), round-lot ($1m to $5m) and block (over $5m). Bonds with S&P ratings below (above) B+++ are considered high-yield (investment grade). Panel B shows the effect on classifier accuracy of pre-negotiated trades, identified as matched opposing pairs of trades within 0 (and alternatively 60) seconds of each other. The sample net of matched pairs is derived by netting the more exhaustive (60 second) definition. 

Panel A. Trade Size, High-Yield vs. Investment Grade 

|HY vs IG<br>Size|HY vs IG<br>Size|Full Sample|50+ Sample|
|---|---|---|---|
|||N<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**TR**|N<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**TR**|
|All Credit Quality|Micro<br>Odd Lot<br>Round Lot<br>Block<br>All|31,674,264<br>83.3%<br>71.9%<br>11,891,083<br>70.7%<br>65.6%<br>6,409,375<br>66.6%<br>64.4%<br>2,599,652<br>67.2%<br>65.6%<br>52,574,374<br>77.6%<br>69.3%|2,489,662<br>85.8%<br>64.1%<br>392,151<br>73.1%<br>58.9%<br>271,766<br>60.9%<br>59.8%<br>113,077<br>61.3%<br>60.0%<br>3,266,656<br>81.4%<br>63.0%|
|High-Yield|Micro<br>Odd Lot<br>Round Lot<br>Block|15,211,918<br>84.4%<br>72.0%<br>5,228,519<br>71.4%<br>66.6%<br>3,545,829<br>67.7%<br>65.8%<br>1,232,261<br>68.7%<br>67.2%|1,433,383<br>83.8%<br>64.0%<br>223,397<br>72.8%<br>60.1%<br>151,450<br>62.0%<br>60.9%<br>55,400<br>62.8%<br>61.1%|
|Investment<br>Grade|Micro<br>Odd Lot<br>Round Lot<br>Block|14,084,556<br>82.9%<br>72.0%<br>5,460,280<br>70.5%<br>64.9%<br>2,193,005<br>65.3%<br>62.2%<br>1,089,707<br>65.6%<br>63.7%|897,752<br>89.6%<br>64.3%<br>113,290<br>75.4%<br>56.2%<br>57,330<br>59.7%<br>57.0%<br>32,114<br>59.8%<br>58.3%|



Panel B. Effect of Bond Age on Classifier Accuracy 

|Period|Full Sample|50+ Sample|
|---|---|---|
||N<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**TR**|N<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**TR**|
|Within 10 days of ofering date<br>Within 20 days of ofering date<br>Within 30 days of ofering date<br>Within 60 days of ofering date<br>Within 1 year of ofering date<br>Within 2 years of ofering date<br>All<br>Time to maturity _≤_1 year<br>Time to maturity _≤_180 days<br>Time to maturity _≤_90 days<br>Time to maturity _≤_60 days<br>Time to maturity _≤_30 days|1,113,756<br>69.5%<br>61.2%<br>1,484,075<br>72.0%<br>61.9%<br>1,854,210<br>73.5%<br>62.4%<br>2,767,601<br>75.0%<br>63.4%<br>10,148,173<br>76.0%<br>66.6%<br>18,221,936<br>76.2%<br>67.7%<br>52,574,374<br>77.6%<br>69.3%<br>3,094,670<br>77.8%<br>70.0%<br>1,220,144<br>75.4%<br>69.3%<br>503,966<br>71.8%<br>68.0%<br>297,052<br>68.9%<br>66.8%<br>117,090<br>64.0%<br>64.5%|422,926<br>71.4%<br>60.0%<br>476,688<br>73.2%<br>60.0%<br>522,498<br>74.7%<br>60.1%<br>610,934<br>76.8%<br>60.4%<br>1,001,223<br>80.7%<br>61.6%<br>1,463,479<br>82.0%<br>62.1%<br>3,266,656<br>81.4%<br>63.0%<br>121,254<br>77.1%<br>63.6%<br>44,191<br>74.3%<br>63.4%<br>12,590<br>74.1%<br>64.8%<br>6,907<br>69.1%<br>64.9%<br>2,198<br>64.3%<br>59.1%|



Panel C. Effect of Pre-negotiated Trades on Classifier Accuracy 

|Panel C. Efect of Pre-negotiated|Trades on Classifer Accuracy||
|---|---|---|
||Full Sample|50+ Sample|
||N<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**TR**|N<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**TR**|
|Matched Pairs (0 seconds)<br>Matched Pairs (60 seconds<br>All<br>Sample net of Matched Pairs|546,563<br>50.7%<br>50.0%<br>803,297<br>51.3%<br>50%<br>52,574,374<br>77.6%<br>69.3%<br>51,771,077<br>78.1%<br>69.6%|21,295<br>51.0%<br>49.8%<br>30,333<br>50.8%<br>49.8%<br>3,266,656<br>81.4%<br>63.0%<br>3,236,323<br>82.0%<br>63.1%|



52 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 10: **Classifier Accuracy on Rating change and Earnings-Triggered in the 50+ Sample** This table shows the out-of-sample accuracy rates of RF _{_ 5 _}_ and TR in the two events: rating changes and earnings announcements. Panel A shows the classifier accuracy on the day (0,+1) of rating change. Panel B and C examine their accuracy, in the 50+ sample, on days (0,+1) surrounding earnings announcements for high yield bonds on 50+ days. Earnings-Triggered Days are 50+ days in which high-yield bonds trade at least 50+ times following an earnings announcement released by their issuing firms. Panel A reports accuracy rates by bond day. Price Dispersion, _σP_ , is defined as the daily standard deviation of bond prices. HY is high-yield, and IG is investment grade. Results are reported for bonds that trade at least 50 times per triggered day. Panel B reports accuracy rates averaged across issuers for all high-yield bonds on Earnings-Triggered days. Good (Bad) News days are defined as those for which earnings surprises are in deciles 5-9 (0-4) corresponding to positive (negative) surprises. Announcement dates and earnings surprises are obtained from I/B/E/S. 

Panel A. Accuracy Rates on Earnings Triggered Days 

|Bond grade|N|RF_{_5_}_|TR|_σP_|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|HY bonds whose issuers announced earnings|603|79.1%|65.2%|1.07|
|HY bonds whose issuers did not announce earnings|3,154|81.5%|64.2%|0.94|
|IG bonds whose issuers did not announce earnings|1,917|86.6%|62.1%|0.73|



Panel B. Accuracy Rates for High-Yield Bonds on Earnings-Triggered Days 

||By Issuer<br>#Bonds|Earnings Triggered|Non-Earnings Triggered|
|---|---|---|---|
|||N<br>RF_{_5_}_<br>TR|N<br>RF_{_5_}_<br>TR|
|All Earnings<br>Triggered<br>Days|1<br>2+<br>Dif<br>All|384<br>78.4%<br>65.9%<br>82<br>80.0%<br>63.7%<br>1.6%<br>-2.2%<br>466<br>78.7%<br>65.5%|1,999<br>81.3%<br>64.2%<br>394<br>81.9%<br>64.0%<br>0.5%<br>-0.2%<br>2,393<br>81.4%<br>64.2%|
|Good news<br>Days|1<br>2+<br>Dif<br>All|206<br>77.9%<br>67.4%<br>43<br>79.2%<br>61.2%<br>1.4%<br>-6.2%<br>249<br>78.1%<br>66.3%|1,204<br>81.1%<br>64.1%<br>199<br>82.3%<br>63.5%<br>1.2%<br>-0.6%<br>1,403<br>81.3%<br>64.0%|
|Bad news<br>Days|1<br>2+<br>Dif<br>All|177<br>79.3%<br>64.1%<br>39<br>80.8%<br>66.4%<br>1.5%<br>2.3%<br>216<br>79.6%<br>64.5%|1,050<br>81.4%<br>64.3%<br>226<br>82.1%<br>64.1%<br>0.8%<br>-0.1%<br>1,276<br>81.5%<br>64.2%|



Panel C. Effect of Rating Changes on Classifier Accuracy 

|Rating Change (0,+1)|Full Sample|50+ Sample|
|---|---|---|
||N<br>RF _{_5_}_<br>TR|N<br>RF _{_5_}_<br>TR|
|Downgrade (All)<br>No change<br>Upgrade (All)|139,674<br>75.2%<br>67.0%<br>52,400,009<br>77.7%<br>69.3%<br>34,691<br>74.4%<br>70.3%|45,307<br>72.5%<br>63.2%<br>3,219,444<br>81.5%<br>63.0%<br>1,905<br>73.2%<br>74.1%|



53 Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 11: **Accuracy comparison of BVC, Bulk TR and Bulk RF** _**{**_ **5** _**}**_ To run BVC, Bulk TR, and Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ , we use 15 years of the sample (2005-2019). The bar is set based on trade, volume, and time. Once we set the bar, based on the bar’s price difference, we construct the distribution on a running basis. The reported numbers are average daily accuracy of correctly classified volume. 50+ day is defined as a day when a bond is traded more than 50 times. Accuracy is reported in percent. 

Panel A. Trade bar 

||**BVC**|**Bulk TR**|**Bulk RF****_{_5****_}_**|
|---|---|---|---|
|**Year**|**1**<br>**5**<br>**25**<br>**50**<br>**100**|**1**<br>**5**<br>**25**<br>**50**<br>**100**|**1**<br>**5**<br>**25**<br>**50**<br>**100**|
|2005<br>2006<br>2007<br>2008<br>2009<br>2010<br>2011<br>2012<br>2013<br>2014<br>2015<br>2016<br>2017<br>2018<br>2019|64.7<br>56.9<br>58.3<br>58.9<br>59.2<br>65.8<br>56.4<br>58.0<br>58.7<br>59.1<br>66.5<br>55.8<br>56.5<br>57.8<br>58.6<br>67.5<br>55.7<br>55.4<br>55.7<br>56.0<br>66.1<br>55.4<br>56.7<br>57.9<br>59.1<br>66.0<br>55.5<br>57.3<br>59.4<br>61.3<br>66.5<br>55.7<br>57.1<br>58.7<br>59.9<br>67.9<br>56.3<br>57.6<br>59.0<br>59.8<br>67.7<br>55.9<br>56.9<br>57.9<br>58.6<br>67.0<br>55.8<br>56.9<br>58.1<br>59.1<br>67.0<br>55.4<br>56.3<br>57.4<br>58.2<br>67.6<br>55.5<br>56.0<br>56.9<br>58.0<br>67.3<br>55.7<br>57.7<br>59.5<br>61.3<br>67.6<br>55.9<br>57.0<br>58.5<br>60.0<br>66.8<br>55.7<br>56.7<br>58.1<br>59.4|66.2<br>63.1<br>61.9<br>61.8<br>61.7<br>65.0<br>61.8<br>61.1<br>61.1<br>61.3<br>66.8<br>63.4<br>62.7<br>62.7<br>62.8<br>68.5<br>66.0<br>65.7<br>65.7<br>65.7<br>64.1<br>61.7<br>61.9<br>62.4<br>62.8<br>65.3<br>62.8<br>62.6<br>62.7<br>62.9<br>67.7<br>65.3<br>64.9<br>65.0<br>65.1<br>69.7<br>67.5<br>67.5<br>67.7<br>67.9<br>68.8<br>66.8<br>66.8<br>66.9<br>66.9<br>67.4<br>65.1<br>65.0<br>65.2<br>65.3<br>66.9<br>65.2<br>65.7<br>65.9<br>66.0<br>66.2<br>64.5<br>65.5<br>66.1<br>66.5<br>65.3<br>63.6<br>64.6<br>65.2<br>65.7<br>64.9<br>63.9<br>65.3<br>65.8<br>66.0<br>61.8<br>61.1<br>62.8<br>63.6<br>64.3|70.0<br>66.5<br>64.9<br>64.6<br>64.5<br>70.7<br>67.1<br>65.4<br>65.2<br>65.1<br>72.2<br>68.5<br>66.7<br>66.4<br>66.4<br>74.7<br>71.9<br>70.2<br>69.8<br>69.4<br>73.9<br>70.9<br>69.1<br>68.7<br>68.6<br>72.4<br>69.3<br>67.6<br>67.3<br>67.1<br>73.1<br>70.3<br>68.9<br>68.7<br>68.5<br>75.0<br>72.6<br>71.6<br>71.5<br>71.4<br>73.2<br>71.1<br>70.4<br>70.3<br>70.3<br>72.9<br>70.5<br>69.6<br>69.4<br>69.3<br>73.1<br>71.1<br>70.4<br>70.3<br>70.1<br>73.4<br>71.4<br>70.9<br>71.0<br>71.2<br>73.1<br>71.1<br>70.6<br>70.6<br>70.7<br>72.6<br>71.2<br>71.2<br>71.3<br>71.4<br>69.7<br>69.0<br>69.5<br>69.9<br>70.2|
|**All**|**66.9**<br>**55.8**<br>**56.9**<br>**58.2**<br>**59.3**|**66.1**<br>**64.1**<br>**64.5**<br>**64.8**<br>**65.0**|**72.6**<br>**70.4**<br>**69.5**<br>**69.4**<br>**69.4**|
|**50+**<br>**58.5**<br>**52.3**<br>**53.6**<br>**57.8**<br>**57.9**<br>**58.0**<br>**71.0**<br>**71.0**<br>**70.8**||||
|Panel B. Volume bar||||
||**BVC**|**Bulk TR**|**Bulk RF****_{_5****_}_**|
|**Year**|**1k**<br>**10k**<br>**100k**<br>**1m**<br>**10m**|**1k**<br>**10k**<br>**100k**<br>**1m**<br>**10m**|**1k**<br>**10k**<br>**100k**<br>**1m**<br>**10m**|
|2005<br>2006<br>2007<br>2008<br>2009<br>2010<br>2011<br>2012<br>2013<br>2014<br>2015<br>2016<br>2017<br>2018<br>2019|64.7<br>64.7<br>62.7<br>60.2<br>58.4<br>65.8<br>65.6<br>63.1<br>60.1<br>57.7<br>66.5<br>66.3<br>63.6<br>60.4<br>57.1<br>67.5<br>67.3<br>65.0<br>61.6<br>56.3<br>66.1<br>65.9<br>63.8<br>60.3<br>56.5<br>66.0<br>65.9<br>63.4<br>60.0<br>57.2<br>66.5<br>66.3<br>64.0<br>60.5<br>57.4<br>67.9<br>67.8<br>66.1<br>62.4<br>57.9<br>67.7<br>67.6<br>65.5<br>61.5<br>57.2<br>67.0<br>66.9<br>64.8<br>60.8<br>57.2<br>67.0<br>66.8<br>64.6<br>60.7<br>56.6<br>67.6<br>67.4<br>65.4<br>60.9<br>56.4<br>67.3<br>67.1<br>65.1<br>61.2<br>57.8<br>67.6<br>67.4<br>65.4<br>61.5<br>57.3<br>66.8<br>66.4<br>64.3<br>60.1<br>56.1|66.4<br>65.9<br>63.6<br>61.7<br>61.9<br>66.9<br>66.4<br>63.8<br>61.9<br>62.1<br>67.3<br>66.8<br>64.4<br>62.3<br>62.8<br>68.3<br>67.9<br>65.9<br>64.0<br>64.9<br>67.1<br>66.7<br>64.7<br>62.6<br>63.4<br>67.1<br>66.6<br>64.6<br>62.3<br>62.3<br>67.5<br>67.1<br>65.2<br>63.4<br>63.9<br>68.9<br>68.5<br>66.6<br>65.0<br>66.2<br>68.5<br>68.1<br>66.4<br>64.9<br>65.7<br>68.1<br>67.6<br>65.9<br>64.5<br>65.2<br>68.0<br>67.6<br>66.0<br>64.9<br>65.9<br>68.4<br>68.0<br>66.5<br>65.3<br>66.5<br>68.1<br>67.7<br>66.2<br>65.0<br>65.9<br>68.2<br>67.9<br>66.8<br>66.1<br>67.1<br>67.3<br>67.1<br>66.3<br>65.8<br>67.0|70.0<br>69.6<br>67.0<br>64.1<br>63.6<br>70.7<br>70.2<br>67.3<br>64.4<br>64.0<br>72.2<br>71.8<br>69.0<br>65.6<br>65.3<br>74.7<br>74.3<br>72.1<br>69.0<br>68.4<br>73.9<br>73.4<br>70.7<br>67.0<br>66.9<br>72.4<br>72.0<br>69.4<br>66.1<br>65.7<br>73.1<br>72.7<br>70.4<br>67.6<br>67.3<br>75.0<br>74.6<br>72.4<br>69.9<br>70.1<br>73.2<br>72.9<br>71.0<br>68.8<br>68.9<br>72.9<br>72.5<br>70.5<br>68.3<br>68.4<br>73.1<br>72.8<br>70.9<br>68.9<br>69.3<br>73.4<br>73.0<br>71.1<br>68.8<br>69.5<br>73.1<br>72.7<br>71.0<br>69.0<br>69.3<br>72.6<br>72.3<br>70.9<br>69.5<br>70.1<br>69.7<br>69.5<br>68.4<br>67.3<br>68.7|
|**All**|**66.9**<br>**66.8**<br>**64.6**<br>**60.9**<br>**57.1**|**67.8**<br>**67.4**<br>**65.7**<br>**64.3**<br>**65.2**|**72.6**<br>**72.3**<br>**70.3**<br>**67.9**<br>**68.1**|
|**50+**<br>**58.5**<br>**53.6**<br>**60.7**<br>**58.0**<br>**71.0**<br>**70.8**||||



## Panel C. Time bar 

||**BVC**|**Bulk TR**|**Bulk RF****_{_5****_}_**|
|---|---|---|---|
|**Year**|**day**<br>**week**|**day**<br>**week**|**day**<br>**week**|
|2005<br>2006<br>2007<br>2008<br>2009<br>2010<br>2011<br>2012<br>2013<br>2014<br>2015<br>2016<br>2017<br>2018<br>2019|60.5<br>58.1<br>60.6<br>56.9<br>60.6<br>56.1<br>60.4<br>56.0<br>59.1<br>54.9<br>59.8<br>55.4<br>60.2<br>55.5<br>61.0<br>56.1<br>60.6<br>55.4<br>60.5<br>55.2<br>59.9<br>54.8<br>59.7<br>54.5<br>59.6<br>54.7<br>59.3<br>54.8<br>58.8<br>54.6|66.4<br>63.9<br>66.9<br>64.1<br>67.3<br>64.8<br>68.3<br>66.5<br>67.1<br>65.3<br>67.1<br>64.6<br>67.5<br>65.6<br>68.9<br>67.5<br>68.5<br>67.0<br>68.1<br>66.5<br>68.0<br>66.7<br>68.4<br>67.4<br>68.1<br>66.8<br>68.2<br>67.6<br>67.3<br>67.2|70.0<br>66.3<br>70.7<br>66.9<br>72.2<br>68.5<br>74.7<br>71.5<br>73.9<br>70.1<br>72.4<br>68.6<br>73.1<br>69.9<br>75.0<br>72.4<br>73.2<br>70.9<br>72.9<br>70.3<br>73.1<br>70.8<br>73.4<br>71.3<br>73.1<br>70.9<br>72.6<br>71.3<br>69.7<br>69.1|
|**All**|**59.9**<br>**55.3**|**67.8**<br>**66.4**|**72.6**<br>**70.2**|
|**50+**<br>**53.6**<br>**58.0**<br>**70.8**||||



> Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 54 

Table 12: **Bulk Classifier Accuracy on Earnings-Triggered 50+ Days** This table shows the accuracy rates of BVC (volume bar $1,000), Bulk TR, and Bulk RF _{_ 5 _}_ in the 50+ day sample, on days (0,+1) surrounding earnings announcements by issuing firms. Earnings-Triggered Days are 50+ days in which high-yield bonds trade at least 50+ times following an earnings announcement released by their issuing firms. Panel A reports accuracy rates by bond day. All bonds trade at least 50 times per day. HY is high-yield, and IG is investment grade. Panel B reports accuracy rates averaged across issuers for all high-yield bonds on Earnings-Triggered days. Good (Bad) News days are defined as those for which earnings surprises are in deciles 5-9 (0-4) corresponding to positive (negative) surprises. Announcement dates and earnings surprises are obtained from I/B/E/S. 

Panel A. Accuracy Rates on Earnings-Triggered Days 

|By Bond-day|||Bulk|Bulk|
|---|---|---|---|---|
||N|BVC|TR|RF_{_5_}_|
|HY bonds whose issuers announced earnings|603|60.3|62.5|69.0|
|HY bonds whose issuers did not announce earnings|3,154|59.3|61.7|71.2|
|IG bonds whose issuers did not announce earnings|1,917|57.0|58.8|73.8|



Panel B. Accuracy Rates for High-Yield Bonds on Earnings-Triggered Days 

||||Earnings Triggered|Earnings Triggered||Non-Earnings Triggered|Non-Earnings Triggered|Non-Earnings Triggered|Non-Earnings Triggered|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||By Issuer|||Bulk|Bulk|||Bulk|Bulk|
||# Bonds|N|BVC|TR|RF_{_5_}_|N|BVC|TR|RF_{_5_}_|
|All Earnings|1|384|60.9|63.7|69.2|1,999|59.2|62.0|71.9|
|Triggered|2+|82|59.2|60.6|68.8|394|59.8|61.5|71.5|
|Days|All|466|60.6|63.1|69.1|2,393|59.3|61.9|71.9|
|Good news<br>Days|1<br>2+<br>All|207<br>43<br>250|60.5<br>58.1<br>60.1|64.0<br>58.3<br>63.0|69.9<br>69.7<br>69.9|1,204<br>199<br>1,403|58.4<br>59.4<br>58.6|61.2<br>60.9<br>61.2|71.7<br>70.1<br>71.5|
|Bad news<br>Days|1<br>2+<br>All|177<br>39<br>216|61.3<br>60.3<br>61.1|63.2<br>63.1<br>63.2|68.3<br>67.9<br>68.2|1,050<br>226<br>1,276|60.0<br>60.5<br>60.0|63.0<br>62.5<br>62.9|72.2<br>73.4<br>72.4|



55 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

Table 13: **Out-of-sample Forecast Accuracy of RF** _**{**_ **7** _**}**_ **, RF** _**{**_ **5** _**}**_ **, LR and TR in the Equity Market** This table shows the out-of-sample prediction accuracy of RF _{_ 7 _}_ , RF _{_ 5 _}_ , TR, and LR for 1,949 Nasdaq stocks trading from 12/12/2013-12/13/2013. Panel A of this table reports the comparative forecast accuracy of each rule across the equity and bond markets (the TRACE column in Panel A is reproduced from Table 5). Panel B of this table shows the accuracy of the classifiers across trading frequency deciles, based on daily trading frequency (number of trades per day per stock). 

Panel A. Comparison of Classifier Accuracy across Markets 

|Panel A.|Comparison of Classifer A|
|---|---|
|**Rule**|**ITCH**<br>**TRACE**|
|N<br>**RF****_{_7****_}_**<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**LR**<br>**TR**|434,910<br>52,574,371<br>77.6%<br>N/A<br>74.6%<br>77.6%<br>74.0%<br>N/A<br>74.3%<br>69.3%|



Panel B. Classifier Accuracy by Trading Frequency 

|Panel B.|Classifer Accuracy by Trading Frequency|
|---|---|
|**Decile**|No of trade<br>N<br>**RF****_{_7****_}_**<br>**RF****_{_5****_}_**<br>**LR**<br>**TR**|
|1<br>2<br>3<br>4<br>5<br>6<br>7<br>8<br>9<br>10|33.3<br>43,033<br>77.5%<br>72.5%<br>76.8%<br>72.1%<br>72.6<br>43,758<br>75.2%<br>72.5%<br>72.1%<br>72.5%<br>113.8<br>43,940<br>74.6%<br>72.0%<br>70.4%<br>72.1%<br>164.2<br>43,080<br>75.7%<br>72.8%<br>71.3%<br>72.7%<br>247.2<br>43,867<br>77.5%<br>74.0%<br>73.1%<br>73.8%<br>387.1<br>43,448<br>75.3%<br>73.4%<br>71.2%<br>72.5%<br>611.3<br>43,648<br>77.8%<br>74.9%<br>71.3%<br>74.6%<br>1,166.1<br>43,026<br>79.1%<br>75.8%<br>74.9%<br>75.0%<br>2,528.7<br>42,388<br>80.7%<br>78.0%<br>77.5%<br>77.8%<br>7,094.3<br>44,722<br>83.1%<br>80.1%<br>81.3%<br>80.2%|



56 

Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3848068 

