# **Common pitfalls in the evaluation of corporate bond strategies**[*] 

Alexander Dickerson[a] , Cesare Robotti[b,][] , and Giulio Rossetti[c] 

> a _UNSW Business School, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia_ 

> b,c _Warwick Business School, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom_ 

## September 2024 

## ABSTRACT 

This paper demonstrates that the large abnormal returns documented for many corporate bond strategies are primarily artifacts of ignoring market microstructure noise in transaction-based prices and applying ex-post (asymmetric) data filtering. After addressing these issues, most corporate bond strategies fail to generate significant abnormal returns. Furthermore, we provide extensive guidance for improving empirical practices in corporate bond research, including a new protocol for assessing strategy performance under data uncertainty. Our findings have important implications for asset pricing research and highlight the need for more rigorous and reproducible methods in studying corporate bond markets. 

_Keywords_ : Corporate bond strategies; Market microstructure noise; Bid-ask bias; Look-ahead bias; Data uncertainty. 

## _JEL classification_ : C12; C13; G12. 

> * An earlier version of this paper circulated under the title “Noisy prices and return-based anomalies in corporate bonds.” We gratefully acknowledge comments and suggestions from Patrick Augustin, Hendrik Bessembinder, Nicholas Chen, Peter Feldh¨utter, Mathieu Fournier, Alexey Ivashchenko, Gergana Jostova, Jong-Myun Moon (Insight Investment), Stanislava Nikolova, Yoshio Nozawa, Alexander Philipov, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, Botao Wu, and seminar and conference participants at Aarhus University, Louvain Finance, UNSW Business School, USI Lugano, University of Sydney, University of Technology Sydney, Warwick Business School, and the 2023 ESSEC-CYU-Warwick Econometrics Workshop. The companion website to this paper, `openbondassetpricing.com` , contains updated corporate bond factor data, replication code, and market microstructureadjusted TRACE return- and price-based signals. The companion bond portfolio/strategy construction software, `PyBondLab` , can be accessed via `openbondassetpricing.com/data-uncertainty` . 

>  Corresponding author. 

_Email addresses_ : `alexander.dickerson1@unsw.edu.au` (A. Dickerson), `cesare.robotti@wbs.ac.uk` (C. Robotti), and `g.rossetti@warwick.ac.uk` (G. Rossetti). 

## **1 Introduction** 

Asset pricing research within the realm of corporate bonds stands at a critical juncture. The field confronts a mounting credibility crisis stemming from the proliferation of studies that potentially exhibit methodological limitations and empirical design inconsistencies. In turn, this has collectively given rise to a large body of research that often proves difficult to replicate, potentially leading to flawed conclusions.[1] 

In this paper, we present a framework for generating reliable and reproducible corporate bond asset pricing research, with accompanying publicly available software and data, by focusing on three interrelated areas. 

1. _Microstructure adjustments_ . Most bond studies that form strategies with price- or return-based characteristics rely on transaction-based Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (TRACE) data, which is subject to market microstructure noise (MMN). We provide a simple solution along with publicly available code and data to construct bond signals that are purged of MMN. The noise embedded in price-based signals can explain the artificially high premia and Sharpe ratios of many bond strategies. 

2. _Ex-post data filtering_ . Many bond studies filter bond data ex-post by excluding/winsorizing price or return observations based on ad hoc (and often asymmetric) thresholds. This common practice delivers out-of-sample trading strategies that are affected by look-ahead bias. The resulting bias arises from the application of sample filters that employ information not available at the time of portfolio formation. We provide extensive advice and examples of the consequences of relying on ex-post filters and characterize the associated look-ahead bias across dozens of strategies. Economically, we show that the look-ahead bias induced by infeasible (ex-post) filtering artificially inflates strategy returns and Sharpe ratios during times of financial distress. 

3. _Data uncertainty_ . There is no single source of truth when it comes to handling corporate bond data. We investigate the role of over 100 possible data filtering methods applied ex-ante (at the time of portfolio formation). This generates hundreds of potential bond datasets that are free of look-ahead bias. Our publicly available data uncertainty code is applicable to any bond strategy and allows researchers to generate a distribution of the possible realizations of their average strategy returns.[2] 

> 1This certainly does not imply that all corporate bond related research is subject to the shortcomings discussed in this paper. 

> 2The code package `PyBondLab` is open source and available for download in Python. The open source code repository can be accessed here. Additional discussion is provided on the companion website 

1 

Within the context of corporate bonds, we carefully characterize the notion of MMN in transaction-based TRACE price data, which is primarily comprised of bid-ask bias. Specifically, we show that signals based on previous-month bid-ask averaged TRACE prices (e.g., bond credit spreads, yields, or short-term reversals, among others) are mechanically linked with the next-month returns and lead to spurious predictability (MMN bias). Since most empirical bond pricing research makes use of bid-ask averaged TRACE price data, the bias issue we document becomes immediately relevant. Our novel bias-correction procedure uses an implementation gap to control the transmission of MMN bias embedded in bid-ask averaged price-based signals to next-month strategy returns.[3] While the detrimental impact of MMN on the results can (intuitively) be dampened by simply using industry-grade (bid-side only) dealer quote data, this data is expensive and is not available to most academic researchers. Our simple correction procedure to the TRACE data delivers pricing results that are broadly aligned with those from quote-based databases. 

The vast majority of all corporate bond pricing related research that utilizes TRACE employs bond price-based signals that have not been adjusted for MMN.[4] The effect of purging bond returns of MMN is so drastic that the reduction in the return premium on the bond short-term reversal strategy exceeds 90%. (The monthly return premium is reduced from 0 _._ 90% to approximately 0%.) When we split the sample into bonds rated investment grade (BBB _−_ and above, IG henceforth) and noninvestment grade (BB+ and below, NIG henceforth), we find that after adjusting for MMN, IG bonds exhibit a weak short-term reversal effect while NIG bonds exhibit an economically sizable and statistically significant short-term momentum effect. Without adjustments for MMN bias, a researcher would erroneously conclude that there is a pervasive short-term reversal effect in all segments of the corporate bond market. 

Similarly, the return premia on bond strategies based on yields, prices, and credit spreads are also drastically reduced after adjusting bond signals for MMN. (The reduction in the return premia ranges between 50% and 65%.) For comparison, the estimated biases in return premia related to equity pricebased anomalies such as firm size, share price, and illiquidity are roughly 50% of the corrected premium estimates (Asparouhova, Bessembinder, and Kalcheva, 2013). After correcting for the measurement error in the price-based signals, no strategy exhibits economically meaningful or statistically significant average abnormal returns. Recent work by Andreani, Palhares, and Richardson (2023) and Lair and Blonk (2024) 

confirms our findings on the pervasive effects of MMN within the context of lead-lag relationships between 

> `openbondassetpricing.com/data-uncertainty` . 

> 3We make our data and MMN-correction code publicly available to researchers. The latest bond-level data with MMN-adjusted bond characteristics can be downloaded via `openbondassetpricing.com/data` (OSBAP henceforth). 

> 4Notable exceptions are Bartram, Grinblatt, and Nozawa (2024) and Lair and Blonk (2024). 

2 

transaction- and quote-based data in the corporate bond market. 

Although our interest mainly lies in estimating premiums associated with strategies that could be biased by MMN, the market microstructure issues we analyse are potentially relevant to a wide range of bond pricing applications including those related to out-of-sample return predictability. We do not claim that any of the findings in these studies would necessarily be overturned, and this is not the focus of our paper. However, in many instances, results are potentially overstated due to the measurement error induced by MMN (Duarte, Jones, and Wang, 2024b). Overall, given that the corporate bond market is inherently less liquid than the stock market, ignoring the noise in observed prices can potentially have detrimental effects on the results.[5] 

In the second part of the paper, we explore the role played by look-ahead bias induced by ex-post data filtering in corporate bond pricing research. We show that this bias, which is due to the use of information beyond the point of portfolio formation, artificially inflates the out-of-sample performance of several bond strategies. Over the past decade, many corporate bond pricing papers published in top journals have relied on ex-post data filtering schemes, with the implication that their findings are contaminated with lookahead bias. For example, in their recently retracted paper, Bai, Bali, and Wen (2019) asymmetrically and ex-post winsorize bond returns in the left tail when forming their downside, credit, and illiquidity risk factors.[6] Similarly, Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen (2021) asymmetrically and ex-post winsorize the left tail of the return distribution when forming their out-of-sample strategies and factors based on long-term reversal signals. As for Jostova, Nikolova, Philipov, and Stahel (2013), the authors asymmetrically and ex-post trim bond returns in the right-tail when forming their momentum portfolios.[7] Unfortunately, this practice is surprisingly widespread in corporate bond pricing research, and a description of the adopted winsorization/trimming rules is often missing from the respective papers. 

As mentioned above, winsorizing or excluding asset (excess) returns in an ex-post fashion (in the left or right tails of the distribution) would render the out-of-sample investment performance of any anomaly portfolio or long-short factor spurious by mechanically inflating the strategy/factor mean and deflating its volatility. To foster intuition on the effects of ex-post and asymmetric return winsorization/trimming on asset 

> 5The list of papers that use unadjusted price- and return-based metrics as characteristics is extensive. See Lin, Wang, and Wu, 2014, Lin, Wu, and Zhou, 2018, Bai, Bali, and Wen, 2019, Bali, Goyal, Huang, Jiang, and Wen, 2020, Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen, 2021, Guo, Lin, Wu, and Zhou, 2022, Kelly and Pruitt, 2022, Ceballos, 2022, Cao, Goyal, Xiao, and Zhan, 2023, Li, Yuan, and Zhou, 2023, Duan, Li, and Wen, 2023, and Bai, Bali, and Wen, 2023, among others. 

> 6See Bai, Bali, and Wen (2023) for the details. 

> 7See their footnote 16 in the published version of the paper. 

3 

pricing results, consider a bond momentum strategy with a formation period of three months and a holding period of one month. Suppose that a bond ends up in the short leg of the momentum strategy because it realized very poor returns over the three-month momentum formation period. This bond is then sold short over the one-month holding period. If the bond realizes an out-of-sample return of +50% over the holding period, this implies a loss of _−_ 50% on this position (the position is held short). By capping the returns (ex-post) at, for example, the +30% threshold, the maximum possible loss over the holding period for selling the bond short is only _−_ 30%. Therefore, for momentum strategies, ex-post return trimming or winsorization in the right tail limits downside risk by reducing the impact of unexpectedly large positive returns on short positions. In different words, right-tail winsorization artificially caps the potential losses from bonds held short that realize very positive returns (i.e., bonds that ‘bounce back’) over the holding period. This very same logic can be applied to winsorization in the left tail for long positions. Finally, it is immediately clear that ex-post return winsorization/trimming mechanically reduces the strategy/factor volatility. After characterizing the look-ahead bias due to ex-post filtering and its impact on asset pricing tests, we show that this bias artificially inflates strategy returns and Sharpe ratios especially around important economic events, such as the Great Recession or the COVID-19 pandemic. 

We acknowledge that there is no single source of truth when dealing with corporate bond data available to academic researchers. Appropriate ex-ante filters are, in many cases, required to generate reliable asset pricing results, especially in light of the high level of data uncertainty when it comes to corporate bond data.[8] To address this issue, we provide open source Python code to generate hundreds of potential bond datasets starting from any bond data source based on a suite of commonly used corporate bond filters. Our handling of data uncertainty differs from recent work by Jostova, Nikolova, and Philipov (2024) who use exclusively ex-post filters to generate various corporate bond datasets, all of which are clearly subject to look-ahead bias.[9] Moreover, in the spirit of Duarte, Jones, Khorram, Mo, and Wang (2024a) for the options market, we differentiate our set of filters based on whether they are implemented ex-ante, that is, with information available at the portfolio formation date, or ex-post, that is, with forward-looking information available 

> 8Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg (2023) claim that the replication failures in corporate bond research are due to data errors in major bond data sources. While properly accounting for potential data errors is a crucial part of the empirical process, we show that the data errors supposedly identified by Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg (2023) are of negligible importance in pinning down possible reasons for these replication failures. (See Section A of the Internet Appendix for additional details.) In contrast, we attribute the replication crisis in corporate bonds to ignoring MMN and to the ex-post and asymmetric filtering of the return distribution. 

> 9Galvani and Li (2023) consider ex-post return winsorization and exclusion filters in their re-examination of bond momentum, and find that bond momentum premia are contingent on how returns in the tails of the distribution are filtered. 

4 

after the portfolio formation date. We show that the two filtering rules generate out-of-sample average strategy/factor returns (from any commonly used sorting characteristic) that are drastically different. 

We provide extensive guidance for proper ex-ante data filtering and apply the `PyBondLab` portfolio formation software to several well-known bond strategies and sort bonds based on ratings, credit spreads, short- and long-term reversals, momentum, and many other signals. Importantly, our open source package is applicable to any characteristic a researcher would want to form a factor or strategy on. For each strategy, we generate hundreds of potential data samples and build a distribution for the average return to trading the given strategy across the imposed data filters. Our methods allow researchers to reliably infer the probability that their strategy is profitable after adjusting for multiple hypothesis testing via the false discovery rate approach of Benjamini and Hochberg (1995). 

The difference in the average return spreads from applying the ex-ante vs. ex-post filters is striking. Using the NIG momentum strategy as an example, after computing 480 ex-ante filtered strategies, only 2 (0.4% of the strategies) generate a statistically significant premium, less than what would be expected purely by chance. After adjusting for multiple hypothesis testing, none of the NIG momentum strategy average returns are significant any longer. In contrast, around 25% of the NIG momentum strategies generate statistically significant premia when applying ex-post filtering. 

Accounting for data uncertainty across corporate bond databases is also part of our uncertainty protocol. The most commonly used bond databases in the literature are generally split based on whether they are transaction-based or quote-based. Throughout, we find a remarkable level of consistency across databases once proper market microstructure noise adjustments and ex-ante data filtering have been applied. 

In the final part of the paper, we provide further discussion on how to conduct reliable corporate bond pricing research. First, we comment on when it could be appropriate to conduct ex-post filtering of a given bond dataset. Appropriate handling of erroneous data (e.g., negative bond prices) and other considerations are an important part of the empirical process (Duarte, Jones, Khorram, Mo, and Wang, 2024a). We document and select few cases where ex-post data filtering is a viable and prudent option. Second, we discuss the feasibility of short positions in bond strategies. It is well-known that the initiation of short positions in the corporate bond market is challenging (Blonk and Messow, 2024, Israel, Palhares, and Richardson, 2017, and Houweling and Van Zundert, 2017). Corporate bond short-selling fees are also economically large relative to average returns and increase precisely when short positions would appear to pay off, that is, during times 

5 

of financial distress.[10] We recommend dissecting the long-short strategy return to ascertain the underlying driver of a strategy premium and alpha. If the driver of the premium or alpha stems from the short leg of the long-short strategy, it is highly unlikely to be implementable in practice.[11] Third, to truly determine the realistic potential of a given factor or strategy, its performance after costs should be examined. Recent work by Dickerson, Nozawa, and Robotti (2024) demonstrates that after transaction costs, none of their 341 considered strategies and 9 machine-learning based factors are able to generate sizable and statistically significant alphas. The majority of the net-of-cost average strategy returns and alphas are also found to be negative. Fourth, we advocate for greater consistency in handling the mild (positive) serial autocorrelation in bond strategy returns. We find that the Newey and West (1987) adjustment with the lag length chosen via readily implementable heuristics works well.[12] We conclude by discussing (i) how to properly form a pseudo firm-level bond return that is free of look-ahead bias; (ii) how to compute a corporate bond ‘excess return’; (iii) how to select the number of break points to use when forming strategy portfolios and their appropriate weighting; and (iv) the importance of forming bond factors/strategies within the IG and NIG bond universes separately. 

The paper is organised as follows. In Section 2, we describe the relevant data used in numerous studies on corporate bond pricing. In Section 3, we characterise the MMN bias affecting transaction-based corporate bond data and propose a simple correction procedure to adjust for the measurement error in any price- or return-based bond signal. In Section 4, we discuss ex-ante and ex-post filtering and introduce a protocol for dealing with corporate bond data uncertainty. Section 5 concludes. Additional data descriptions and results can be found in the Appendix and the Internet Appendix. 

## **2 Data** 

Throughout the paper, we use a combination of corporate bond databases to illustrate our main empirical results. We employ the intraday TRACE data, the WRDS monthly TRACE data, the monthly Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAML) quote data provided by Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), a version of the WRDS TRACE data with MMN-corrected bond price signals provided by `openbondassetpricing.com/data` 

> 10The average annualized short-selling fee in the corporate bond market is 80 (41) basis points for high-yield (IG) bonds computed with the Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) bond data and the indicative fee data from Markit. 

> 11Muravyev, Pearson, and Pollet (2022) show that after adjusting for short-selling fees, the profitability of most equity anomalies disappears. 

> 12The majority of recent corporate bond related research does adjust for serial autocorrelation, but the lag length is not necessarily consistently chosen. 

6 

(OSBAP), and the Mergent Fixed Income Securities Database (FISD).[13] We do not necessarily take a stand on the ‘most correct’ bond database to use. We do, however, offer prescriptive advice on how to ensure that corporate bond pricing results are consistent across these databases. (See the Appendix for a detailed description of the four databases and the filters that we apply to them to alleviate the concern of potential data errors.) In Section A of the Internet Appendix, we also show (quantitatively) that many of the data assumptions made by WRDS are appropriate when constructing their database.[14] 

In the section that relates to identifying MMN in the TRACE data and when characterizing the lookahead bias from ex-post trimming/winsorizing, we employ a standard set of filters that have been routinely considered in the literature. However, the quantitative results from conducting these exercises with any bond data across any set of reasonable filters are materially unchanged. In the section that relates to data uncertainty, we use the unfiltered publicly available corporate bond data from WRDS, the unfiltered BAML data provided by ICE, and the publicly available data from OSBAP. We then apply more than 100 filters to these unfiltered data to generate hundreds of potential datasets that we use to form our corporate bond trading strategies. 

We rely on Newey and West (1987) to adjust the standard errors associated with the average returns and alphas of the various strategies. The lag length is selected based on Greene (2012) by computing the integer component of _T_[1] _[/]_[4] _,_ where _T_ is the length of the time series. Across all of our strategies, this implies a lag length equal to three. We provide a discussion of the lag length selection criteria in Section 4.5. 

None of the results in this paper are materially impacted by a certain choice of filter or method, and this can be publicly verified with the open source software and data that we provide. Throughout our main analyses, we define bond excess returns as the total bond returns in excess of the one-month risk-free rate primarily because this has been the de facto return definition for many academic papers published over the past decade. We offer explicit advice on how to define bond excess returns in Section 4.5. 

## **3 Measurement error and market microstructure noise** 

A bond month-end price-based signal should not also be used in the denominator when computing an ex-ante (out-of-sample) bond return. Price measurement error shared by the price used as the signal, _s[∗] ,_ 

> 13The MMN-corrected OSBAP is also used by Bali, Beckmeyer, and Goyal (2023) and Chen, Roussanov, Wang, and Zou (2024). 

> 14Recent work by Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg (2023) strongly criticises the WRDS bond data. We demonstrate that these critiques are unfounded. 

7 

and the subsequent return can be spuriously correlated. A month-end bond return is typically computed as 

**==> picture [299 x 48] intentionally omitted <==**

where _P[f]_ is the full price of the bond (includes accrued interest), and _C_ is the coupon (if any). In any over-the-counter (OTC) market, corporate bonds included, the transaction price associated with the signal, _s[∗]_ , is not available to the trader in real time. Put differently, this transaction price cannot be simultaneously observed as the signal and then used as a proxy for the bond purchase price at the portfolio formation date. In the following analysis, we discuss a simple procedure based on an implementation gap that removes the potential bias from assuming a contemporaneous signal and purchase price. 

## **3.1 Bond short-term reversals** 

Prior research in corporate bonds related to constructing reversal strategies and factors follows the methodology of Jegadeesh (1990) for equities. The short-term reversal investment signal available at the end of month _t_ is computed using a bond’s prior one-month return ( _Rt−_ 1: _t_ ), with bond prices that comprise both dealer bids and asks. When dealing with transaction-based bond data, the transaction price at _t,_ used to form the bond short-term reversal signal, should not also be used to compute the ex-ante return that the investor will realise over _t_ : _t_ + 1 _._ As noted by Bartram, Grinblatt, and Nozawa (2024) (BGN henceforth), price measurement error shared by the month-end signal and the subsequent return can generate spuriously high correlation between the two when the same set of prices is used for both signal generation and ex-ante return computation.[15] By using the transaction price observed at _t_ in the formation of the reversal signal, the implicit assumption is that this is the same price that investors use to purchase the bond. Given that most bonds do not trade on a given day, this is problematic.[16] This is precisely the reason why the short-term reversal anomaly cannot be detected in the ICE or Bloomberg quote-based bond data. 

In contrast to the TRACE transaction-based data, for each bond in the ICE database there will always be a valid bid-side quote at the end of month _t._ This results in a synchronous time-series of bond prices, sampled at exactly the end of each and every month. Given that the data is quote-based and is not a bid-ask 

> 15With quote-based data, this is not an issue as all market participants observe the same quote for the price of the bond at the end of month _t,_ can use this price to compute the short-term reversal signal, and trade at the given price posted by the dealers. 

> 16In a LOB-driven market as is the case for equities, this is a perfectly reasonable assumption. Work on corporate bonds by Palhares and Richardson (2020) suggests that the fraction of no trade days for IG (HY) bonds averages 69 (66) percent. 

8 

averaged price, it is largely free of microstructure noise and bid-ask bias issues by construction (Andreani, Palhares, and Richardson, 2023 and Lair and Blonk, 2024). 

We now provide an easy-to-implement augmented correction procedure (relative to BGN) to control for measurement error/MMN in the TRACE data. To illustrate the efficacy of our approach in controlling for MMN, we compare our reversal-based strategies with the same strategies constructed with the ICE quote-based data as a benchmark. 

## **3.1.1 Correcting the short-term reversal signal** 

We source the daily bond price on the first available trading day of month _t,_ which we denote by _pt,d_ (it includes any accrued interest on day _d_ ). Thereafter, we locate the bond price at least one trading day before the end-of-the-month bond transaction price ( _Pt_ ) used to compute the bond return from _t_ : _t_ + 1.[17] We denote this price by _pt,d_ + _n_ (it includes any accrued interest on day _d_ + _n_ ). Critically, this methodology ensures that the prices used to construct the short-term reversal signal are not the prices used to construct the bond return that is earned from trading on the signal.[18] Our minimum one business day gap increases the probability that the correlations between estimated signals and estimated returns stem from signals that truly predict returns rather than any microstructure bias. This gap is also referred to as an ‘implementation lag’ in recent work by Lair and Blonk (2024). Scenarios that artificially induce correlation between shortterm reversal signals and subsequent returns become less likely the larger the gap between the prices used for signals and returns. Naturally, increasing the gap will reduce market microstructure noise but may also give rise to a stale signal.[19] Panel A of Fig. 1 illustrates the transaction timing of prices that are used to construct the bond short-term reversal signal. 

**==> picture [88 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

We use the bond prices _p_ to compute the short-term reversal signal for each bond _i_ in month _t_ as 

**==> picture [304 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

> 17We directly source the trade date used for the month-end price ( _Pt_ ) from the WRDS bond database. The variable name is encoded as `T DATE` . 

> 18See Duarte, Jones, and Wang (2024b) for the use of a similar bias adjustment in options. Note also that the one business day gap implicitly assumes away any trade splitting or bond trades by a single investor that can take several days to materialize. Since the subprime crisis, trading into a corporate bond position (especially high-yield debt) can take several weeks, as emphasized by Wu (2022). 

> 19We find that increasing the required gap beyond one business day has no material impact on the results. 

9 

where _pi,t,d_ + _n_ is the bond transaction price (including any accrued interest on day _d_ + _n_ ) at least one business day before the month end price _Pi,t_ , _pi,t,d_ is the bond transaction price (including any accrued interest on day _d_ ) closest to the beginning of month _t,_ and _ci,t_ is the coupon payment (if any). Note that this method delivers a short-term reversal signal that is very different from the one based on the prior-month bond price as in Jegadeesh (1990) for equities: 

**==> picture [295 x 25] intentionally omitted <==**

_Pt_ now serves as the transaction price used to compute the signal as well as the price that is employed to buy into the position (and compute the associated return over the following month). Note the computation of _STREV_ in Eq. (3) is rendered even more problematic by virtue of _P_ being computed using average intraday bid and ask prices at the end of month _t._ For the quote-based ICE _STREV_ signal ( _STREV[ICE]_ ), we can employ Eq. (3) based on bond bid prices that are, by construction, largely free of bid-ask bias and market microstructure noise.[20] Furthermore, we denote the signal based on the noisy TRACE data by _STREV[MMN] ._ Finally, we also implement the method of Asparouhova, Bessembinder, and Kalcheva (2010, 2013) by using prior-month gross returns (1+ _Ri,t_ ) as the value-weighting scheme, and show that this method cannot efficiently eliminate MMN in bond data.[21] 

## **3.1.2 Portfolio sorts based on short-term reversal signals** 

We now sort bonds into decile portfolios based on their respective prior-month short-term reversal signal. For all variants of the reversal signal ( _STREV[∗] , STREV[ICE] ,_ and _STREV[MMN]_ ), we sort bonds into deciles using the short-term reversal signal observable to the investor at the end of month _t_ , and we hold these bonds for a single month, recording the ex-ante return over month _t_ : _t_ +1 _._ In Panels A to C of Table 1, we report the average excess returns and one-factor bond capital asset pricing model (CAPMB) alphas for each _STREV_ signal using market capitalization, equal, and gross return (1 + _Ri,t_ ) weights, respectively. 

**==> picture [84 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

In Panel A, using market capitalization weights, the average return on P1 (prior month winners), for both the _STREV[∗]_ - and _STREV[ICE]_ -sorted portfolios, is very close to the average return on P10 (prior month losers). The resultant P10 _−_ P1 average return based on the two signals is close to zero (0.03% and 0.06%, respectively) 

> 20The bond prices provided by ICE are bid-side prices only. 

> 21Asparouhova, Bessembinder, and Kalcheva (2010) show that for equities, this weighting scheme is effective in reducing measurement error. 

10 

and statistically insignificant. CAPMB alphas convey a similar message. Overall, the close similarity in both average returns and alphas for the MMN-adjusted _STREV[∗]_ and quote-based _STREV[ICE]_ strategies demonstrates the efficacy of our adjustment procedure. The one-day implementation gap is sufficient enough to purge the out-of-sample strategy returns from measurement error and align the TRACE-based results to those from an industry-grade data provider such as ICE. In contrast, the value-weighted _STREV[MMN]_ strategy based on an unadjusted short-term reversal signal, generates a large and strongly statistically significant average return spread (CAPMB alpha spread) of 0.90% (0.69%) per month. (The _t_ -statistics are 4.79 and 3.34, respectively.) 

Strikingly, in Panel B (equal weight), after correcting for measurement error in the TRACE data, past bond winners outperform losers, indicating a short-term momentum as opposed to a short-term reversal effect. The measurement error corrected _STREV[∗]_ and the quote-based _STREV[ICE]_ P10 _−_ P1 average returns are _−_ 0.30% and _−_ 0.20%, respectively. The CAPMB alpha spreads are also similar in magnitude ( _−_ 0.44% and _−_ 0.33% per month, respectively) and highly statistically significant. In contrast, based on the unadjusted _STREV[MMN]_ signal, a researcher would erroneously conclude that there is a very strong short-term reversal effect with an average return (CAPMB alpha) spread of 1.00% (0.79%) per month ( _t_ -statistics of 5.05 and 3.83, respectively). 

The message from Panel B is largely confirmed in Panel C, where we consider the gross return weighting scheme that was proposed by Asparouhova, Bessembinder, and Kalcheva (2010, 2013). This gross return weighting scheme turns out to be ineffective in reducing measurement error in unadjusted transaction-based TRACE bond data. It would appear that the effective handling of measurement error in the bid-ask averaged TRACE price data requires at least a one-day implementation gap between signal observation and ex-ante return computation.[22] 

It should be noted that when equal or gross return weighting are used, the sign of the short-term reversal 

> 22As an alternative to the proposed implementation gap, following Kaul and Nimalendran (1990) and Blume and Stambaugh (1983), researchers could compute short-term reversal signals with TRACE ask- and bid-side only prices (based on prior-month prices without any intra-month business day gap), which mechanically removes the bid-ask effect in the computation of the short-term reversal signal. The results of this analysis are available from the authors upon request and confirm our previous findings with TRACE MMN-corrected and ICE-based short-term reversal signals. In other words, researchers could also rely on bid- or ask-side only prices and use the same transaction price in both signal formation and ex-ante return computation. However, in this latter scenario, the sample is drastically reduced by about 22% for bids and 47% for asks, as in many cases there are no bids or asks within the last five business days of the month. In a similar fashion, one could use interdealer prices. Duffie, Gˆarleanu, and Pedersen (2005) show that the interdealer price may be closer to the true asset price, and MMN would be less pervasive for this set of prices. 

11 

strategy turns negative, indicating short-term momentum. To uncover which bonds are responsible for this sign reversal, we split the sample into IG and NIG debt and report average returns (CAPMB alphas) for the P10 _−_ P1 portfolios in Panel A (B) of Table 2. 

## Table 2 about here 

With value and equal weights, our results suggest that there is weak evidence for the short-term reversal effect only in IG bonds, when using the bias-adjusted _STREV[∗]_ and _STREV[ICE]_ strategy signals. The monthly average loser _−_ winner returns for the _STREV[∗]_ ( _STREV[ICE]_ ) signals are 0.11% (0.14%) and 0.06% (0.16%) for the value- and equal-weighting schemes, respectively. However, these values, along with the CAPMB alphas presented in Panel B are all statistically insignificant. Interestingly, for NIG bonds and the equal-weighting scheme, there is evidence of an economically large and statistically significant short-term momentum effect. Prior losers (P10) keep underperforming prior winners (P1) by _−_ 0.64% ( _−_ 0.57%) for the bias-adjusted _STREV[∗]_ ( _STREV[ICE]_ ) signal. (Both the average strategy returns and CAPMB alphas are statistically significant at the 5% nominal level.) In contrast, the equal-weighted NIG MMN-unadjusted _STREV[MMN]_ strategy delivers a loser _−_ winner short-term reversal premium of 0.69% ( _t_ -statistic of 2.00). The amount of noise embedded in the _STREV[MMN]_ NIG signal is so large that the interpretation of the strategy completely changes from that of reversal to that of momentum once the measurement error has been removed. 

## **3.2 Market microstructure noise and price-based characteristics** 

To control for MMN when forming any bond price-based signal, we again propose a simple method based on an implementation gap. Panel B of Fig. 1 presents a hypothetical example of how daily bond prices are used to construct bond price-based signals for month _t_ that are purged of MMN. 

For any month _t,_ an investor sources the daily bond price at least one trading day _d_ before the end-ofthe-month transaction price _Pt._ This price, denoted by _pt,d−_ 1 _,_ is used to compute any price-based signal, i.e., credit spreads or bond yields. The trader observes the signal and purchases the given bond at price _Pt,_ and she will realize a return over the following month of _[P] P[t]_[+] _t_[1] _−_ 1 _._ The end-of-the-month transaction prices _Pt_ must be within the last five business days of the month. This ensures that the signal prices _pt,d−_ 1 are never included in the realized out-of-sample bond returns that use the bond prices _Pt_ in the last five business days of month _t._ 

12 

In Table 3, we report average returns and CAPMB alphas from decile portfolios sorted on bond yield ( _Yield_ , Panel A), credit spread ( _Spread_ , Panel B), the six-month change in the log of bond credit spreads ( _6m_ ∆ _Spread_ , see Kelly, Palhares, and Pruitt, 2023 and Kelly and Pruitt, 2022, Panel C), and bond price ( _Price_ , Panel D). We use all bonds rated AAA to D in the sample and rebalance the portfolios monthly with a one-month holding period. Portfolios are value-weighted using bond market capitalization. 

## Table 3 about here 

Across all panels, we denote the average returns and alphas from using the unadjusted (MMN-adjusted) characteristics by TRACE _[MMN]_ (TRACE _[∗]_ ). The average returns and alphas for the portfolios formed with the ICE data are denoted by ICE. 

For all of the decile sorts, the P10 _−_ P1 average returns and CAPMB alphas are statistically significant at the 5% nominal level when the noisy TRACE _[MMN]_ signals are used. The monthly premia from the noisy TRACE _[MMN]_ strategies are economically large and range from 1.06% for the price signal to 1.20% for the yield signal (all deliver annualized returns way above 12%). On the other-hand, the denoised TRACE _[∗]_ and ICEbased strategies are much more aligned, implying that our correction procedure based on an implementation gap does a reasonably good job at aligning the transaction-based TRACE data to the industry-grade ICE data. Except for the sort on the six-month change in log credit spreads for ICE, none of the price-based CAPMB alphas are statistically significant at the 5% nominal level once we control for measurement error in the TRACE data. For the yield-, spread-, and price-based strategies, the MMN-corrected TRACE _[∗]_ average strategy return is within 4 basis points (bps) of its ICE counterpart. In contrast, the TRACE _[MMN]_ average returns are 20 to 40 bps larger than those of ICE due to the inflation effect caused by measurement error. 

Going from the noisy TRACE _[MMN]_ to the MMN-adjusted TRACE _[∗] ,_ the CAPMB alphas from the P10 _−_ P1 spreads decrease by 41% for bond yields, 40% for credit spreads, 68% for the six-month change in log credit spreads, and 38% for bond prices. Clearly, the impact of MMN on bond price-based signals is pervasive and can be potentially mitigated by the MMN-reduction procedure we prescribe along with work by Bartram, Grinblatt, and Nozawa (2024) and Lair and Blonk (2024). In unreported robustness checks that can be carried out with the publicly available data repository OSBAP along with `PyBondLab` , we obtain similar results across IG and NIG sample splits and when using different weighting schemes. 

13 

## **3.3 Measurement error in price-based strategies** 

The measurement error, which we define as _ϵ_ , embedded in the TRACE unadjusted price-based strategies can be thought of as a wedge or noise component that inflates the feasible (implementable) strategy return. Using this logic, we define the monthly strategy return bias (Bias) as the difference between the noisy strategy return constructed with TRACE price-based signals ( _f_[˜] _t,_ Noisy) and the feasible strategy return ( _ft,_ Feasible), which is computed with signals that are supposedly less affected by measurement error due to our noise-adjustment procedure, 

**==> picture [262 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

Throughout, we sort bonds into value-weighted (by bond market capitalization) decile portfolios. Using alternative weighting schemes such as equal weighting only serves the purpose to inflate the potential bias. We present the high _−_ low average returns and Sharpe ratios (CAPMB alphas and information ratios) of _f_[˜] _t_ , _ft,_ and _ϵt_ in Panel A (B) of Table 4. 

## Table 4 about here 

Panel A shows that across all strategies, the estimated bias is economically large, ranging from 0.22% per month for the _Spread_ strategy to 0.87% per month for _STREV_ . Strategy Sharpe ratios (in square brackets) are also substantially reduced (from 0.96 to 0.05 for _STREV_ and from 1.19 to 0.60 for _6m_ ∆ _Spread_ ). The Sharpe ratios of the _Yield_ , _Spread_ , and _Price_ strategies decrease by approximately 20% when turning from _f_[˜] _t_ to _ft._ Panel B shows that all of the Noisy strategy CAPMB alphas are economically large and highly statistically significant. In contrast, the Feasible strategy alphas are greatly reduced and not statistically different from zero at conventional significance levels. It should be noted that for _STREV_ , the alpha associated with the Bias component is 0.81% per month, about six times as large as the absolute value of the Feasible strategy alpha ( _−_ 0.13% per month). 

Overall, by failing to account for the OTC dynamics and transaction-based pricing environment of corporate bonds from the TRACE database, the results from constructing short-term reversal and other price-based strategies are predominantly driven by MMN. Our publicly available correction procedures allow researchers to compute adjusted price-based bond signals that are less affected by MMN. 

14 

## **4 Look-ahead bias and data uncertainty** 

We argue that besides not properly accounting for MMN in strategy and factor construction, many influential papers in the corporate bond literature have heavily relied on ad hoc (asymmetric) ex-post filtering of the return distribution (other data filters that are not return-based are also discussed in this section). This practice is difficult to justify when the primary purpose of the analysis is to show that an investment strategy is profitable and implementable in real time. In Fig. 2, we provide a hypothetical example of ex-post data filtering. 

## Figure 2 about here 

Across the entirety of the data, bond returns/observations are filtered out ex-post at a given percentile or ad hoc cut-off, that is, they are excluded/winsorized arbitrarily based on a threshold of the pooled return distribution (across bonds and months). Therefore, an investor at time _t_ (portfolio formation time) will never realize a future return that is beyond the chosen winsorization or exclusion threshold. This introduces a clear look-ahead bias because the bond price at time _t_ +1 is unknown at the portfolio formation time _t._ This results in trading strategies that are ‘infeasible,’ because the investment universe has been changed using information beyond the portfolio formation date _t._ Data filtering should be conducted ex-ante, that is, with information that is strictly available at or before the portfolio formation month _t._ While ex-ante filtering still involves a nontrivial degree of arbitrariness as far as the choice of the data filters and filtering thresholds is concerned, it does guarantee that the chosen trading strategy is not contaminated by look-ahead bias. Our data uncertainty protocol that precisely tries to address this issue will be discussed in the subsequent analysis. 

## **4.1 How do ex-post filters bias out-of-sample asset pricing results?** 

Similar to Duarte, Jones, Khorram, Mo, and Wang (2024a) in the options literature, we define the level of look-ahead bias in corporate bonds as the difference between the ‘infeasible’ strategy return ( _f_[˜] _t_ , constructed with ex-post trimming/winsorizing) and the ‘feasible’ strategy return ( _ft_ ) that has been constructed without any ex-post data filtering, i.e., _ηt ≈ f_[˜] _t − ft._ 

To illustrate the nontrivial role played by the look-ahead bias term, _η,_ we replicate several strategies in the literature that have used some degree of (asymmetric) ex-post data filtering. These include the corporate 

15 

bond momentum strategies based on three-month formation and holding periods, _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) _,_ and on sixmonth formation and holding periods, _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6), which rely on the ex-post winsorization (at the 99.5[th] percentile) of the right tail of the return distribution.[23] We also consider the bond long-term reversal ( _LTREV_ ) and total variance ( _V OL_ ) strategies of Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen (2021) and Bai, Bali, and Wen (2021), which rely on ex-post winsorization of the left tail. Finally, we include the characteristics based on which the factors of Bai, Bali, and Wen (2019, BBW henceforth) are constructed, that is, ratings ( _Rating_ ), historical 95% value-at-risk (95% _V aR_ ), and bond illiquidity ( _ILLIQ_ ). The construction of the three characteristics relies on ex-post winsorization of the left tail at the 0.5[th] percentile. (See Bai, Bali, and Wen, 2023, for the winsorization descriptions.) In our data, the 0.5[th] (99.5[th] ) return percentile corresponds to _−_ 15.90% (16.01%) per month. For consistency with the original papers, we implement their value-weighting scheme (par amount outstanding as opposed to bond market capitalization) and use the same number of portfolio breakpoints (quintiles for the BBW characteristics, long-term reversal, and total variance, and deciles for the JNPS momentum). The strategies are formed using the OSBAP publicly available database. However, results are virtually unchanged when employing alternative databases such as WRDS or ICE. We present the strategy average returns and Sharpe ratios (CAPMB alphas and information ratios) of _ft_ , _f_[˜] _t,_ and the bias term _ηt_ in Panel A (B) of Table 5. 

## Table 5 about here 

First, in Panel A, the infeasible strategy average returns, _t_ -statistics, and Sharpe ratios (in square brackets) are heavily inflated by the look-ahead bias. In the case of the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) average return, the Sharpe ratio quintuples from 0.08 to 0.54. For the _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) strategy, the feasible average return is _−_ 0.06 compared to 0.33% ( _t_ -statistic of 1.66) for the infeasible return. For the _LTREV_ strategy, the feasible average return is 0.30%, which is not statistically different from zero at conventional significance levels. With left-tail winsorization, the monthly average out-of-sample return increases to 0.51% ( _t_ -statistic of 2.74) and the Sharpe ratio almost doubles (from 0.39 to 0.75).[24] The BBW-related strategy Sharpe ratios increase by 33% for _ILLIQ_ up to 67% for _Rating._ Moreover, the _V OL_ ’s Sharpe ratio increases by 43% when turning from feasible to infeasible strategies. 

> 23Jostova, Nikolova, Philipov, and Stahel (2013, JNPS henceforth) perform trimming instead of winsorization at the 99.5[th] percentile. (See their footnote 16 for details.) In unreported results, we show that the results from return exclusions are similar to those from winsorizing, except that the look-ahead bias is now even larger because the associated data points are completely excluded from the analysis. 

> 24See Fig. A5 of the Internet Appendix for further illustrations of the absence of a long-term reversal effect in corporate bonds. 

16 

Turning to Panel B, all of the infeasible strategy CAPMB alphas are economically large and statistically significant. In contrast, none of the feasible strategy alphas are sizable and statistically different from zero. For the majority of the strategy alphas, the bias term is the key driver. The bias component represents between 41% (for _ILLIQ_ ) and 88% (95% _V aR_ ) of the infeasible strategy alpha. 

A natural questions arises. How does the documented look-ahead bias generate artificially large and significant alphas when in reality (with feasible strategies) there is none? We address this question in Panels A and C of Fig. 3, where we plot the time series of the look-ahead bias, _ηt,_ for the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and the 95% _V aR_ strategies that employ right- and left-tail trimming/winsorization in the original studies, respectively. 

## Figure 3 about here 

It appears that the bias term artificially pays off during times of financial distress, precisely because during these periods the feasible strategy underperforms, i.e., marginal utility and discount rates are high and prices are depressed. By ex-post and asymmetrically trimming/winsorizing the tails of the return distribution when creating the infeasible strategy, crucial economic information is omitted, which artificially inflates _f_[˜] _t_ during economic downturns. Clearly, an infeasibly-constructed strategy that pays off during times of distress via expost filtering has a negative covariance with investor’s wealth and is extremely desirable but, unfortunately, is not tradable. For example, as emphasized in the Introduction, the right-tail (ex-post) trimming of the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) strategy returns artificially caps the potential losses from bonds held short that realize very positive returns (i.e., bonds that ‘bounce back’) over the holding period. Similarly, the left-tail (ex-post) winsorization of the 95% _V aR_ strategy returns artificially caps the potential losses from bonds with high levels of downside risk in the long leg of the portfolio that realize very negative returns over the holding period. Similar findings and considerations also hold for the other considered strategies. 

In Panels B and D, we link the level of the look-ahead bias to a widely used proxy of financial distress, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) VIX index. We regress the level of the bias onto the lagged VIX and squared VIX (to capture possible nonlinearities) and present the fitted values in red. For both strategies, the line of best fit resembles a long call option payoff structure, where the bias, _η,_ strongly increases (nonlinearly) in the level of the VIX. During severe economic downturns, such as the Great Recession, the European Debt Crises (2015/2016), and the COVID-19 pandemic (March 2020), the bias artificially inflates the feasible strategy return, with large payoffs from ex-post filtering returns at a given threshold. The correlation 

17 

between the lagged VIX and the bias is 0.47 (0.46) for the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) (95% _V aR_ ) strategy. Using other variables that capture bond-specific financial distress, such as the Gilchrist and Zakrajˇsek (2012) aggregate credit spread or the time series of Moody’s aggregate default rates, generates even higher correlations. In unreported results available from the authors upon request, we find that these aggregate variables strongly predict the documented look-ahead bias across most of the strategies that we consider. 

## **4.2 Ex-post vs. ex-ante filtering and data uncertainty** 

To explore the role played by data uncertainty and its link to the distinction between ex-ante vs. ex-post filtering, we use corporate bond momentum as a laboratory alongside the publicly available WRDS bond database.[25] Later on, we apply our data uncertainty protocol to dozens of other corporate bond strategies, including the most common ones in the literature. There is a large debate as to whether bond momentum exists, strengthening its use case within the context of developing a data uncertainty protocol. On the one hand, Khang and King (2004), Gebhardt, Hvidkjaer, and Swaminathan (2005), Kelly, Palhares, and Pruitt (2023), Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg (2023), Dang, Hollstein, and Prokopczuk (2023), and Dickerson, Julliard, and Mueller (2023a) find a convincingly negative momentum premium (e.g., losers outperform winners). On the other end, Jostova, Nikolova, Philipov, and Stahel (2013), Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen (2017), and Jostova, Nikolova, and Philipov (2024) identify a very large, positive, and statistically significant premium. Again, it is important to note that our filtering scheme is directly applicable to the construction of any corporate bond strategy, which we cover in Sections 4.3 and 4.4. Descriptive statistics for the unfiltered WRDS bond database are presented in Panel A of Table A3 of the Internet Appendix. 

We focus on four categories of data filters that have been implemented in corporate bond research. For the ex-ante exclusion filters, if the data filtering variable (i.e., price) is outside of the pre-defined criteria, the data point is removed from the sample at portfolio formation month _t,_ meaning that the bond is excluded from the investment universe. Furthermore, observations are excluded from _t−n_ to _t_ based on the momentum formation period _n._ However, observations beyond the formation month _t_ are not removed. For the ex-post exclusion filters, the data point is removed at portfolio formation month _t_ and over the full (out-of-sample) holding period. 

For the ex-ante return winsorization filters, returns are winsorized at pre-defined thresholds up until 

> 25It is well-known that the momentum strategy is very sensitive to observations in the left and right tails of the return distribution. As such, it is ideal for showcasing data uncertainty within the context of look-ahead bias. 

18 

month _t._ This filter only effects the computation of the momentum signal over the formation period _t − n_ to _t._ It does not effect the computation of other non-return based signals. Out-of-sample returns realized after the portfolio formation month are not winsorized. For the ex-post winsorization filters, any return over the entire sample that falls outside of the threshold is set equal to that threshold, even returns that are realized after the portfolio formation month _t._ 

The filters cover the left, right, and both tails of the underlying distribution. 

1. _Price exclusions_ . We filter out (exclude) bonds from the sample based on bond prices (represented as a percentage of par value). In the right tail, we consider prices in the range of 150 to 1,050 in increments of 100. In the left tail, we consider prices in the range of 2 to 20 in increments of 2. As for both regions, we consider the pairs (2,1,050), (4,950), up until (20,150). These filters are used in most of the empirical work as it relates to corporate bonds. (See, for example, Bai, Bali, and Wen, 2019, and Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen, 2021.) 

2. _Return exclusions._ We filter out bonds from the sample based on their monthly returns. In the right tail, we consider monthly returns in the range of 20% to 95% in increments of 5%. The left tail trimming uses an equivalent (negative) range. When we filter out returns in both regions, we exclude monthly returns greater than the specified level in absolute terms. (Jostova, Nikolova, Philipov, and Stahel, 2013, adopt this trimming scheme in an ex-post fashion in their study of momentum.) 

3. _Return winsorizations._ We winsorize returns up until the portfolio formation month _t_ (ex-ante). Returns beyond the portfolio formation month are not winsorized. Ex-post winsorization uses the full sample applied to all returns. For the right tail, we consider thresholds from the 98[th] to the 99.5[th] percentile in increments of 0.5. For the left tail, we winsorize at thresholds that range from the 0.5[th] to the 2[nd] percentile in increments of 0.5. Winsorization of both tails is based on percentile pairs of the form (0.5[th] ,99.5[th] ), (1[st] ,99[th] ), up until (2[nd] ,98[th] ). In the ex-ante version of the filter, this only applies to signals that require a rolling window to estimate such as momentum, volatility, or historical value-at-risk. The ex-post winsorization filters have been used, for example, by Bai, Bali, and Wen (2023). 

4. _Return bounce-back exclusions._ We filter out bonds where the product of their monthly returns ( _Rt × Rt−_ 1) meets a pre-defined threshold. For the left tail, we consider a threshold between _−_ 1% and _−_ 10% in increments of 1%. The right tail uses an equivalent (positive) range, while the adjustment is 

19 

done in absolute terms for both tails. This filter is designed to filter out very illiquid bonds. (See, for example, Chordia, Goyal, Nozawa, Subrahmanyam, and Tong, 2017.) 

In total, we consider a set of 120 possible data filters. This number includes filtering in the left and right tail (asymmetric filtering) and in both tails (symmetric filtering). We apply these filters to the publicly available WRDS bond database, which has not been pre-filtered using any of the procedures we describe in the Appendix. In other words, the data comprises all possible bond observations from the WRDS data offering. Although these filters are certainly not exhaustive, they do cover the vast majority of those implemented in the literature.[26] 

All ex-ante and ex-post data samples and strategies are formed with `PyBondLab` .[27] Importantly, this code repository can be employed to handle data uncertainty across any signal (not just momentum) that could be used to form an out-of-sample corporate bond strategy. Throughout this section, we intentionally do not adjust the standard errors associated with the average returns/alphas for serial correlation, such that the _t_ -statistics likely serve as an ‘upper bound’ for the degree of statistical significance. 

Each data filter generates a ‘new’ monthly bond panel. We use this panel to first construct the momentum signal (specific to each bond panel) and the associated long-short momentum premium which is the average return difference between the long and short legs of decile-sorted portfolios. The momentum strategy is implemented with formation and holding periods of three months, _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) _,_ and formation and holding periods of six months, _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) _,_ respectively. We allow for a one-month ‘skip’ period between signal observation and portfolio formation following Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) and Jostova, Nikolova, Philipov, and Stahel (2013). Moreover, we employ equal-weighting (EW) and value-weighting (VW) schemes.[28] We apply the above filters to all bonds (All) and to two subsets of bonds based on ratings, that is, to NIG and IG bonds. Note that, technically, as part of the data uncertainty modeling framework, infinitely many subsets of bonds could be created based, for example, on credit spreads, duration, industry, or any other meaningful characteristic. 

In total, using the 120 data filters, we produce 120 unique WRDS bond return datasets and 2,880 possible decile-sorted long-short corporate bond momentum strategies using the filters ex-ante and ex-post, 

> 26The software package that accompanies this paper has the built-in flexibility to be applicable to any chosen filtering method. 

> 27We thank Yoshio Nozawa for providing us with his bond momentum Matlab code, which produces identical baseline results to those of our `PyBondLab` Python code. 

> 28 Value-weighting uses bond market capitalization, defined as bond price multiplied by the units of the bond outstanding. We discuss, in detail, the uncertainty related to the weighting scheme in Section 4.5 

20 

with equal- and value-weights across the NIG, IG, and All subsamples for the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) specifications.[29] We apply the 120 filters independently to reduce the high dimensionality of the problem. 

## **4.2.1 Data uncertainty for NIG momentum** 

We present the ordered (high to low) _t_ -statistics from the 480 decile-sorted long-short NIG momentum strategies in Panels A (ex-ante) and B (ex-post) of Fig. 4. 

## Figure 4 about here 

Out of the 480 ex-ante filtered NIG momentum premia (average returns) that are free from look-ahead bias in Panel A, only 2 (0.4%) are statistically significant at the 5% nominal level. The only ex-ante filters that generate statistically significant NIG momentum premia are those that either asymmetrically winsorize or trim in the left tail of the return distribution.[30] First, it is striking that the number of significant strategies at the 5% level (2) is less than what we would expect purely by chance (480 _×_ 5% = 24), i.e., the probability of committing Type I error. Second, after applying the multiple testing correction of Benjamini and Hochberg (1995, BH henceforth), none of the 480 ex-ante filtered NIG momentum strategy premia are significantly different from zero. 

Turning to Panel B, which repeats the exercise with ex-post filtering, many momentum strategies exhibit large _t_ -statistics, all of which are spurious due to the look-ahead bias embedded in the filtering procedure. Overall, 119 (25%) of the ex-post filtered strategies exhibit a statistically significant premium at the 5% nominal level. After accounting for multiple hypothesis testing, 47 (10%) of the ex-post filtered strategies are still statistically significant at the 5% nominal level of the tests. Of the filter categories we use, expost return exclusions generate 53% of the significant NIG momentum strategy premia, followed by return bounce-back exclusions (26%), and return winsorizations (20%). Price exclusions have no material impact on the NIG momentum premium. Overall, the use of ex-post filtering rules severely distorts the true investment performance of a given corporate bond strategy and highlights the importance of using ex-ante filters when conducting exercises related to data uncertainty. Moreover, adjusting the _t_ -statistics for multiple hypothesis testing alleviates concerns around data snooping from generating many versions of a given strategy. 

> 29 To see this, note that we have 120 filters implemented ex-ante and ex-post (120 _×_ 2 = 240), using EW and VW schemes (240 _×_ 2 = 480), with the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) specifications (480 _×_ 2 = 960) across three subsamples (960 _×_ 3 = 2 _,_ 880). 

> 30These findings are confirmed by Li (2024), who shows that trimming negative outliers ex-ante boosts momentum profitability. 

21 

To further illustrate the detrimental effects of asymmetrically (ex-post) filtering out bonds based on their return distribution, in Fig. 4, we also present the _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) premium across different levels of (asymmetric) return exclusions in the right tail with ex-ante (Panel C) and ex-post (Panel D) filters. In Panel C, none of the ex-ante filtered NIG momentum strategy premia are significantly different from zero across the ex-ante return exclusions. In Panel D, the premia are monotonically increasing in the aggressiveness of the ex-post exclusion threshold. The monthly premium increases from 0.64% from excluding returns _>_ 90% to 1.60% from excluding returns _>_ 20%. It should be noted that the large ex-post filtered NIG momentum premia are contingent on right-tail as opposed to left-tail filtering. As already discussed, ex-post exclusions cap the potential losses from bonds held short that bounce back over the holding period. 

## **4.2.2 Data uncertainty for IG and All momentum** 

To further illustrate how our ex-ante filtering procedure effectively captures potential data uncertainty as it relates to corporate bond momentum, we repeat the above analysis with IG and All bonds. The ordered bar plots of the _t_ -statistics for the IG and All strategies are presented in Figs. A1 and A2 of the Internet Appendix. None of the IG momentum strategy average returns are statistically different from zero with ex-ante or ex-post filters. For the ex-ante filtered strategies using All bonds, only one strategy generates a premium that is statistically significant at the 5% level.[31] After applying the BH adjustment, none of the ex-ante filtered momentum strategies are statistically significant any longer. Using ex-post filters, 5.21% (25 out of 480) of the strategies are statistically significant. All of them stem from ex-post winsorizing or trimming the right tail of the return distribution. In a nutshell, ex-post data filtering has a large impact on NIG momentum and, to a lesser extent, on All momentum. IG bond momentum does not seem to exist, regardless of the whether our data uncertainty procedure is implemented ex-ante or ex-post. 

## **4.3 Data uncertainty for other bond strategies** 

We now apply our data uncertainty protocol to several other bond strategies including bond ratings, (MMN-adjusted) credit spreads, and (MMN-adjusted) short-term bond reversals based on the unfiltered WRDS data. For each sorting variable, we generate 108 (120) ex-ante (ex-post) filtered datasets and form a 

> 31This corresponds to the ex-ante return exclusion filter based on a threshold of _−_ 20%. This means that only the momentum signal is affected, via ex-ante excluding bond returns that breach the _−_ 20% return threshold from its computation. 

22 

long-short (quintile-sorted) strategy return using a one-month holding period with equal- and value-weights.[32] We use both IG and NIG bonds when forming these strategies (those rated AAA to D). 

We present the distribution of the ordered (high to low) _t_ -statistics for each strategy (Panels A to F) in Fig. 5. 

## Figure 5 about here 

The premium (average return) associated with bond ratings is statistically significant at the 5% nominal level of the test across 185 of the 216 ex-ante filtered strategies. In Panel A, the distribution of the ordered _t_ - statistics is essentially uniform. However, when using ex-post filters, some _t_ -statistics are artificially increased while others are decreased. Only 59.58% of the 240 ex-post filtered strategies are statistically significant at the 5% nominal level. This indicates that, in many cases, the use of ex-post filtering methods can skew the true underlying performance of a strategy. We further emphasize this point in Fig. A3 of the Internet Appendix, where we present the average returns from the long-short rating strategies across different levels of the return exclusion filters in the left and right tails. In Panels A and C, the ex-ante return exclusion filters have a minor impact on the rating premium, which remains statistically significant across all cut-off points. However, when the ex-post return exclusion filters are applied, the rating premium is monotonically decreasing in the right-tail exclusions (Panel B) and increasing in the left-tail exclusions (Panel D). 

Turning to the quintile sorts on MMN-adjusted credit spreads, the _t_ -statistics from the ex-ante filtered strategies (Panel C) are all greater than 1.96. In Panel D, the ex-post filtered strategies exhibit a similar pattern to the ex-post filtered rating strategies in Panel B. Finally, only 20.83% (21.25%) of the ex-ante (ex-post) filtered short-term reversal strategies have a statistically significant premium. The pattern of the _t_ -statistics for the ex-post filtered reversal strategies in Panel F is very similar to that in Panel D for credit spreads and Panel B for ratings. 

## **4.4 Data uncertainty across databases** 

Thus far, we have only considered data uncertainty within the WRDS bond return database. Accounting for data uncertainty across databases is also important to fully understand which corporate bond signals are truly predictive of future returns. To this end, we now repeat the above analysis using NIG corporate bond 

> 32Ex-ante return winsorization does not apply to these signals, because they do not use rolling prior returns as an input. Hence, we drop the 12 ex-ante return winsorization filters for these signals. 

23 

momentum as a laboratory based on the ICE database. Thereafter, we consider the majority of the corporate bond signals used in the literature from the OSBAP database. Descriptive statistics for the unfiltered bond data from ICE and the cleaned data from OSBAP are presented in Panels B and C of Table A3 in the Internet Appendix. 

## **4.4.1 NIG momentum with the ICE database** 

We present the ordered (high to low) _t_ -statistics for the 480 ex-ante (ex-post) filtered ICE-based NIG momentum strategy premia in Panel A (B) of Fig. A4 of the Internet Appendix. Only 1.39% (6 out of 480) of the ex-ante filtered strategies command premia that are significantly different from zero at the 5% nominal level, a number that is comparable to the 0.4% (2 strategies) that was found by using the WRDS bond database. Once again, after applying the BH adjustment, none of the strategies deliver statistically significant premia. Conversely, for the ex-post filtered strategies, the best performing strategies are those obtained with ex-post (right-tail) return exclusions or winsorizations. 

## **4.4.2 Uncertainty across the OSBAP database signals** 

To further illustrate the wide applicability of our data uncertainty protocol, we consider an additional dozen of commonly used corporate bond signals by employing the OSBAP database. These signals include bond yield (Gebhardt, Hvidkjaer, and Swaminathan, 2005), credit spread, six-month change in log credit spread, and coupon (Kelly, Palhares, and Pruitt, 2023), price (Bartram, Grinblatt, and Nozawa, 2024), size and duration (Houweling and Van Zundert, 2017), illiquidity (Bao, Pan, and Wang, 2011), maturity, rating (Bai, Bali, and Wen, 2019), age (Israel, Palhares, and Richardson, 2017), and par amount outstanding. Using `PyBondLab` , we form quintile portfolios based on all bonds rated AAA to D with a one-month holding period. All of the price-based metrics have been adjusted for MMN including _ILLIQ,_ which is the autocovariance of within-month daily log bond price changes. We value-weight the portfolios using bond market capitalization. For each one of these strategies, we generate 108 (120) ex-ante (ex-post) filtered datasets and use equaland value-weights, which produces 216 (240) ex-ante (ex-post) strategies for each of the 12 signals. Return winsorizations are omitted when filtering ex-ante, because none of the above signals employs a rolling window that requires return data. In Table 6, we report the standard deviation, minimum, and maximum values of the unadjusted _t_ -statistics, and the percentage of the _t_ -statistics that are greater than 1.96. 

Table 6 about here 

24 

In Panel A, which reports the _t_ -statistics associated with the average strategy returns, the standard deviation based on the ex-ante filters is always smaller (and very often much smaller) than the one based on the expost filters. There is a remarkable consistency across the MMN-adjusted price-based strategies with ex-ante filtering. _Price, Y ield, ILLIQ,_ and _Spread_ signals always generate statistically significant premia, followed by _6m_ ∆ _Spread_ and _Coupon,_ which are statistically significant for 92.59% and 87.96% of the ex-ante filtered strategies. To further illustrate the distributional properties of the _t_ -statistics based ex-ante vs. ex-post filtering, we present the kernel densities for the _t_ -statistics associated with the _Spread, 6m_ ∆ _Spread_ , _Price,_ and _ILLIQ_ strategies in Panels A through D of Fig. 6. 

## Figure 6 about here 

The distribution of each strategy’s _t_ -statistics based on ex-ante filtering is tightly concentrated and does not exhibit fat tails. On the other hand, the _t_ -statistics based on ex-post filtering are widely dispersed, with outliers in both the left and right tails of the distribution. All of the strategies based on ex-post filtering exhibit pronounced left tails, suggesting that strategies yielding statistically significant average returns exante could potentially be deemed to be unattractive upon application of ex-post filters. In contrast, a visual inspection of the right tails of the distributions signals that many _t_ -statistics are grossly inflated when filtering ex-post. This can also be observed in Table 6, where the maximum values of the _t_ -statistics with ex-post filtering oscillate between 5 and 6, compared to much smaller values for the _t_ -statistics with ex-ante filtering (maximum of 3.79 for the _ILLIQ_ strategy). 

Turning to Panel B of Table 6, which reports the _t_ -statistics associated with the CAPMB alphas, strikingly, eleven out of the twelve ex-ante filtered strategies always generate statistically insignificant alphas. The only exception is the MMN-adjusted _ILLIQ_ strategy, which generates significant alphas with ex-ante filtering in 58.33% of the cases. This broadly confirms the results in Dickerson, Mueller, and Robotti (2023b), who find that the bond liquidity factor is the only factor (among those that they consider) that yields (marginal) incremental pricing ability over the bond market factor. Many of the other strategy alphas, however, are artificially inflated by ex-post filtering. For example, using ex-post filtering, over 10% of the _Size, Spread, Price,_ and _Y ield_ strategy alphas become statistically significant. The primary filters driving this phenomenon are those related to ex-post return exclusions or winsorizations of the left tail of the distribution. 

Overall, accounting for data uncertainty is crucial in corporate bond pricing. Implementing filtering 

25 

procedures ex-ante eliminates look-ahead bias and ensures feasible out-of-sample returns. Moreover, when assessing strategies across filtered datasets, multiple hypothesis testing corrections are essential to mitigate data snooping concerns. Where possible, testing a strategy’s performance across different databases (transaction- or quote-based) can add further reliability to the results. 

## **4.5 Additional strategy implementation issues** 

Corporate bond trading is distinct from equities, and there are several other issues that need to be addressed to establish whether bond long-short strategies can be reliably implemented. We discuss some of these issues and offer several recommendations below. 

**When is ex-post filtering justifiable?** Including reliable data in the tails of the return distribution is crucial when constructing out-of-sample strategies, because these data often capture key economic events. Sometimes, ex-post return winsorizations or exclusions are unavoidable since we need to ensure that the out-of-sample pricing results are free from potential data errors. When processing the transactions-based TRACE database by hand, after applying a standard set of filters (ex-ante), some return observations reflect returns of thousands of percent per month.[33] It would be prudent to remove these observations because they have the potential to skew the true out-of-sample performance of a given strategy. This does not, however, imply that aggressive and potentially ad hoc ex-post filtering thresholds should be employed. For example, the WRDS database winsorizes (ex-post) any bond return that exceeds +100% month-to-month. This value lies in the extreme right tail and corresponds to the 99.99[th] percentile of the return distribution. For reference, the 99.50[th] percentile corresponds to a monthly return of only 15.75%. In Tables A1 and A2 of the Internet Appendix, we show that the WRDS winsorization threshold does not materially affect asset pricing results once the winsorized values are replaced with their ‘true’ values obtained from the TRACE or ICE databases. Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg (2023) also demonstrate that for almost all bond factors they examine, average returns do not substantially differ when using the standard WRDS database or their manually error-corrected version of TRACE. 

**Long-only strategies and extended holding periods.** Short selling corporate bonds presents significant challenges in real-world financial markets. Blonk and Messow (2024) observe that the supply 

> 33In the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP) database, there are dozens of monthly stock return observations _>_ 1000% _._ Prior equity research does not remove these values ex-ante or ex-post. 

26 

of bonds available for short selling is substantially more constrained compared to the equity market. This supply limitation is further documented by Hendershott, Kozhan, and Raman (2020), who show that the short interest ratio in bond markets – defined as the proportion of outstanding bonds held in short positions – is less than 50% of the corresponding ratio in equity markets. The majority of industry-oriented research exclusively examines the long leg of sorted candidate portfolios (see, e.g., Israel, Palhares, and Richardson, 2017 and Houweling and Van Zundert, 2017).[34] 

To estimate corporate bond short-selling costs, we merge the Markit Buy Side Analytics database with the WRDS bond database. The estimate of the buy-side short-selling fee, `Indicative Fee` , is Markit’s estimate of the “The expected borrow cost, in fee terms, for a hedge fund on a given day” (Muravyev, Pearson, and Pollet, 2022). Over the sample period 2006:09 – 2023:10, the average annualized borrowing cost is 80 bps for NIG bonds and 41 bps for IG bonds. As documented by Muravyev, Pearson, and Pollet (2022) in the equity market, short-selling costs tend to eliminate the abnormal returns on anomaly portfolios. Explicitly documenting which leg of the strategy return is driving the overall premium or alpha is crucial in pinning down the practicality of realistically trading a given bond strategy. 

Finally, and unlike equities, rebalancing bond portfolios month-to-month may not always be possible. Bonds trade, on average, less than 66% of the business days in a given month (Andreani, Palhares, and Richardson, 2023). Evaluating bond strategy performance with longer holding periods using the overlapping portfolio methodology of Jegadeesh and Titman (1993) would potentially make the results more realistic. There is certainly a trade-off here. Longer holding periods will reduce portfolio turnover and the effects of half-spreads and/or latent delay costs on a strategy’s performance, but they will erode the efficacy of the investment signal if the signal changes rapidly month-to-month with new information over the holding period. 

**Accounting for transaction costs.** The vast majority of corporate bond strategies are unprofitable after accounting for trading delays and half-spreads (Dickerson, Nozawa, and Robotti, 2024). All highturnover strategies (e.g., sorting on past equity/bond momentum or reversals) have negative average returns and CAPMB alphas.[35] Assessing the realistic performance of a bond strategy should involve applying some form of penalty to the its performance by using portfolio turnover and a proxy for the cost of trading (such 

> 34In academic research, Ivashchenko and Kosowski (2024), Ivashchenko (2024), and Dickerson, Nozawa, and Robotti (2024) consider long-only portfolios in the presence of transaction costs. 

> 35Ivashchenko and Kosowski (2024) also show that most high-turnover strategies, including bond reversals, hit capacity constraints quickly and are only tradable in small size. 

27 

as a half-spread). 

**Accounting for serial correlation.** Corporate bond strategy portfolio returns are serially correlated. When evaluating the statistical significance of the average high _−_ low return spread, simple adjustments to the standard errors should be made using the Newey-West procedure (Newey and West, 1987) or some other available methods. The lag length used to adjust the standard errors can be chosen using either nonparametric or parametric bandwidth procedures. (See Newey and West, 1994 and Andrews and Monahan, 1992.) Alternatively, simple heuristics could be employed. By following, for example, Greene (2012), the lag length can be chosen by computing the integer component of _T_[1] _[/]_[4] _._ Across all of our data, this implies a lag length equal to 3. In a nutshell, for empirical size and (size-adjusted) power reasons, it is important to check the autocorrelation functions of the various strategy returns/factors and avoid choosing a number of lags that is either too small or too big. 

**Firm-level bond strategies.** Computing a ‘firm-level’ bond return as the value-weighted average of all outstanding bond returns results in bond strategies that are not feasible out-of-sample. First, most bonds do not trade concurrently with one another, inducing look-ahead bias in the firm-level averaged return. Consider a company with two bonds, A and B, trading on different days within the last 5 business days of the month. Using their weighted average as a firm-level ‘month-end’ return introduces look-ahead bias. This approach incorrectly assumes concurrent pricing and ignores potential predictive relationships between the bonds’ returns. Consequently, any factor- or characteristic-based strategy based on such weighted bond data may contain look-ahead bias, as it assumes investors can concurrently and simultaneously purchase both bonds instantaneously. Second, trading the entirety of a company’s outstanding debt is not possible; many firms have 1,000’s of bonds outstanding. A more appropriate methodology is to select a representative bond each and every portfolio formation month based on predefined criteria such that a single representative bond issue is traded (Israel, Palhares, and Richardson, 2017). 

**Definition of the corporate bond ‘excess return’.** Over the past 40 years, the majority of bond returns in excess of the risk-free rate are attributable to declining U.S. Treasury yields (Binsbergen, Nozawa, and Schwert, 2024). An arguably more appropriate measure of bond excess returns is the bond return ‘in 

28 

excess’ of a maturity- or duration-matched portfolio of U.S. Treasury bond returns.[36] However, even after the advice of Bessembinder, Kahle, Maxwell, and Xu (2008) to define bond returns in this manner, the majority of academic articles have primarily employed bond returns in excess of the one-month risk-free rate as the measure of the bond ‘excess return’. A full data panel of duration-adjusted corporate bond excess returns is available on OSBAP, based on the methodology of Binsbergen, Nozawa, and Schwert (2024). 

**Uncertainty in the choice of portfolio breakpoints and weighting schemes.** Most empirical research in corporate bonds and equities utilizes either quintile- or decile-based breakpoints when forming trading strategies (often called characteristic-sorted portfolios). When ‘factors’ are formed, the most common approach in bonds is to form the factor using independent quintile sorts on bond rating and, thereafter, the other signal of interest. There is not necessarily a heuristic for pinning down the optimal number of breakpoints in the cross-section. What is desirable, however, is consistency in out-of-sample results combined with empirical realism. Using a greater number of breakpoints (and forming decile portfolios) typically results in a much higher month-to-month turnover relative to using quintiles (Dickerson, Nozawa, and Robotti, 2024). In recent work, Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg (2023) also note that forming bond factors with terciles as opposed to quintiles can dampen standard errors. It would be prudent, when identifying a new factor in the cross-section of corporate bonds (or any other asset class), to investigate the possible effects of changing the number of portfolio breakpoints.[37] 

Another salient consideration is how to weight the constituent bonds in each portfolio. The use of bond amount outstanding (bond face value multiplied by the units of the bond outstanding) is not a desirable choice to value-weight bond portfolios.[38] To see this, consider a bond issue with 100 units outstanding that trades at a price of $ 1. The bond par amount (face value) is $ 100. With amount outstanding weights, the weighting value would be 100 _×_ $100 = $10 _,_ 000, compared to only 100 _×_ $1 = $100 with bond market capitalization weights. Using bond market capitalization weights mechanically reduces the effects of potential outliers in the data by construction. Using the above example, assume that the bond priced at $ 1 bounced back to $ 50 the next day (a return of 4900%). With market capitalization weights, this value would constitute 

> 36This is the primary return definition used by industry-oriented academic papers. See, for example, Israel, Palhares, and Richardson (2017), Houweling and Van Zundert (2017), and Andreani, Palhares, and Richardson (2023), among others. 

> 37Statistical methods for optimally choosing the number of portfolio breakpoints are largely missing. A noticeable exception is Cattaneo, Crump, Farrell, and Schaumburg (2020). 

> 38Up until recently, this has been the primary weighting scheme in most bond pricing articles. See for example Jostova, Nikolova, Philipov, and Stahel (2013), Bai, Bali, and Wen (2019), and Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen (2021), among others. 

29 

a tiny fraction of the overall portfolio holdings. With amount outstanding weights, this value would have the potential to bias the true portfolio return over that particular month. Alternatively, one could use bond market capitalization with (ex-ante) winsorization at the 80[th] percentile (Jensen, Kelly, and Pedersen, 2023). This construction framework ensures that bonds with very depressed prices exhibit tiny weights in the overall portfolio and that extremely large capitalization bonds issued by mega-cap firms do not dominate the overall portfolio.[39] Whichever method is chosen, the majority of the nascent literature has either shifted or has advocated for the use of market capitalization-based weights in corporate bonds. (See, for example, Nozawa, Qiu, and Xiong, 2022, Dickerson, Julliard, and Mueller, 2023a, and Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg, 2023.) 

**IG and NIG strategy splits.** As demonstrated in both the sections on market microstructure noise and data uncertainty, the average returns on some bond strategies switch sign depending on whether they are constructed with IG or NIG bonds. With the ICE quote-based data and the MMN-corrected returns from OSBAP, there is strong evidence for short-term momentum in NIG bonds and weak (statistically insignificant) evidence for reversal in IG bonds. There also appears to be weak evidence for momentum computed with the past three months of bond returns in NIG bonds, but not in IG bonds. Constructing bond factors/strategies separately for IG and NIG bonds is crucial, given that the two markets are treated as if they were two separate asset classes from an industry perspective (Ambastha, Dor, Dynkin, Hyman, and Konstantinovsky, 2010, and Houweling and Van Zundert, 2017). 

## **5 Conclusion** 

Over the past decade, academic corporate bond pricing research has consistently relied on very similar techniques and assumptions that were found to be appropriate and successful for equities. This approach, while enticing, should not have been followed. This paper presents a comprehensive framework for addressing critical methodological issues in bond pricing. 

We contribute to the literature in several ways. First, we demonstrate the pervasive impact of market microstructure noise (MMN) in transaction-based bond data. By providing a simple, and yet effective, correction procedure, we enable researchers to construct bond signals that are largely free of MMN. The dramatic reduction in the profitability of many bond strategies after this adjustment – particularly for 39Using the logic of Jensen, Kelly, and Pedersen (2023), this creates a set of “ ... tradable, yet balanced, portfolios.” 

30 

short-term reversals and credit spread-based strategies – underscores the importance of properly accounting for MMN in future corporate bond studies. Second, our examination of data filtering practices reveals the substantial bias introduced by ex-post filtering methods. By illustrating the stark differences between results obtained from ex-ante and ex-post filtering, we highlight the critical importance of only filtering with information available at the time of portfolio formation. This approach ensures that the reported strategy performance is genuine (Duarte, Jones, Khorram, Mo, and Wang, 2024a). Finally, our exploration of data uncertainty through the application of multiple ex-ante filtering methods provides a robust framework for assessing the attractiveness of a bond strategy. By generating distributions of strategy returns across many possible datasets, we offer a more nuanced and realistic view of strategy performance that accounts for the inherent uncertainties in bond data. 

These findings collectively call for a reevaluation of many established results in the corporate bond literature. Strategies that appeared highly profitable under previous methods may no longer yield significant abnormal returns when properly adjusted for MMN and analyzed through the lenses of (ex-ante) data filtering techniques. Moreover, our work emphasizes the need for transparency and reproducibility in financial research. By making our data and code publicly available, we not only facilitate the replication of our findings but also provide tools for other researchers to conduct more robust analyses in the future. Ultimately, our work contributes to a broader effort to enhance the credibility and practical relevance of asset pricing research in corporate bonds. 

31 

## **Appendix** 

In this section, we describe the corporate bond databases that we consider in the paper. For the part of the paper that relates to market microstructure noise and when we apply our data uncertainty protocol to the OSBAP database, we rely on a consistent set of data filters. None of these filters are applied when we employ what we refer to as the unfiltered WRDS or ICE data. 

Across all databases, we filter out bonds that have a time to maturity of less than one year. This filter aligns the transaction-based bond universe to those of industry-grade index providers who remove bonds from the index when they breach the one year to maturity mark due to illiquidity concerns. (See, for example, Andreani, Palhares, and Richardson, 2023.) Furthermore, for consistency across databases, we define bond ratings as those provided by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). We include the full spectrum of ratings (AAA to D), but we exclude bonds that are unrated. For each database that we consider, we do not winsorize or trim bond returns in any way before applying our data uncertainty filters. 

## **WRDS database** 

The WRDS bond database is a pre-processed monthly bond database based on the Enhanced TRACE and FISD data. It was introduced by WRDS in April 2017. The data is publicly available (requires a valid subscription to WRDS). After logging into WRDS, the data is available here. We use the version of the WRDS database that has a sample end date of September 2022. 

## **WRDS bond returns** 

The WRDS data team provides us with three different bond return variables: `RET` ~~`E`~~ `OM` (returns are computed using bond prices that land on any day of the month), `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` (a bond must trade on the last five days of the month), and `RET` ~~`L`~~ `DM` (a bond must trade on the last day of the month). For the results based on the WRDS bond database, we always use `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` , i.e., a return is valid if the bond trades on the last five days of month _t_ and month _t −_ 1 _._ Note that WRDS imposes a data filter that sets any bond return that is greater than 100% equal to 100%, i.e., the return data is winsorized at this level. This filter does not have any meaningful impact on our results, and the issue is carefully addressed when we construct our OSBAP database. 

32 

## **OSBAP database** 

The OSBAP bond database is publicly available on the Open Source Bond Asset Pricing website. The data leverages a combination of the WRDS bond returns and Enhanced TRACE data with price-based signals that have been adjusted for market microstructure noise. The data has also been merged to the CRSP PERMCO and PERMNO equity permanent identification numbers and the COMPUSTAT GVKEY identifier using the OSBAP Bond-Compustat/CRSP Link file. (See Fang, 2024.) Detailed README notes are provided on the OSBAP website. 

## **OSBAP bond return truncation correction** 

The OSBAP database adjusts the WRDS `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` return specification for the truncation of bonds returns greater than +100% by setting any truncated WRDS bond return equal to the return observed in the ICE database, i.e., if the truncated WRDS bond return is equal to 100%, we set this value equal to the bond return from ICE as the true bond return. If the ICE return is missing, we set the value equal to the return computed from the TRACE data itself. 

## **OSBAP bond filters** 

We merge the OSBAP data with the FISD database (also publicly available via the WRDS data platform) and apply the following filters that are all standard in the literature: 

1. Only keep bonds that are issued by firms domiciled in the United States of America, `COUNTRY` ~~`D`~~ `OMICILE == ‘USA’` . 

2. Remove bonds that are private placements, `PRIVATE` ~~`P`~~ `LACEMENT == ‘N’` . 

3. Only keep bonds that are traded in U.S. Dollars, `FOREIGN` ~~`C`~~ `URRENCY == ‘N’` . 

4. Bonds that trade under the 144A Rule are discarded, `RULE` ~~`1`~~ `44A == ‘N’` . 

5. Remove all asset-backed bonds, `ASSET` ~~`B`~~ `ACKED == ‘N’` . 

6. Remove convertible bonds, `CONVERTIBLE == ‘N’` . 

7. Only keep bonds with a fixed or zero coupon payment structure, i.e., remove bonds with a floating (variable) coupon, `COUPON` ~~`T`~~ `YPE != ‘V’` . 

33 

8. Remove bonds that are equity linked, agency-backed, U.S. Government, and mortgage-backed, based on their `BOND` ~~`T`~~ `YPE` . 

9. Remove bonds that have a “nonstandard” interest payment structure or bonds not caught by the variable coupon filter ( `COUPON TYPE` ). This affects a tiny fraction of bonds ( _∼_ 0 _._ 10% or 142 bonds) of the FISD data file. We remove bonds that have an `INTEREST` ~~`F`~~ `REQUENCY` equal to _−_ 1 (N/A), 13 (Variable Coupon), 14 (Bi-Monthly), and 15 and 16 (undocumented by FISD). Additional information on `INTEREST` ~~`F`~~ `REQUENCY` is available on Page 60 of 67 of the FISD Data Dictionary 2012 document. 

10. Remove a small fraction of bonds that do not have the required (and crucial information) to compute accrued interest. Bonds that do not have a valid `DATED DATE` are removed (3,051 bonds). The `DATED` ~~`D`~~ `ATE` variable is the date from which bond interest accrues. Bonds without a valid `INTEREST` ~~`F`~~ `REQUENCY` , `DAY` ~~`C`~~ `OUNT` ~~`B`~~ `ASIS` , `OFFERING` ~~`D`~~ `ATE` , `COUPON` ~~`T`~~ `YPE` , and `COUPON` are also removed (425 bonds in total). 

For bonds with missing amount outstanding information in the file, we set the amount outstanding equal to the face value at issuance. 

## **Enhanced TRACE (TRACE) database** 

TRACE provides intraday bond clean prices, trading volumes, and buy-and-sell indicators. We apply the standard bond filtering procedure used by Binsbergen, Nozawa, and Schwert (2024). 

## **TRACE bond filters** 

We apply the following filters in cleaning the intraday TRACE data for the pre-2012 database. (For detailed descriptions of the TRACE data changes, see Dick-Nielsen, 2014.) 

1. Keep all trades that have less than two days to settlement, `days` ~~`t`~~ `o` ~~`s`~~ `ttl` ~~`c`~~ `t == ‘002’` , `days` ~~`t`~~ `o` ~~`s`~~ `ttl ct == ‘001’` , `days` ~~`t`~~ `o` ~~`s`~~ `ttl ct == ‘000’` or `days to` ~~`s`~~ `ttl` ~~`c`~~ `t == ‘None’` . 

2. Remove trade records with the ‘when-issued’ indicator, `wis fl != ‘Y’` . 

3. Remove trade records with the ‘locked-in’ indicator, `lckd in` ~~`i`~~ `nd != ‘Y’` . 

4. Keep trade records which do not have special conditions, `sale cndtn` ~~`c`~~ `d == ‘None’` or `sale` ~~`c`~~ `ndtn` ~~`c`~~ `d == ‘@’` . 

34 

Thereafter, we clean the bond trades for reversals, corrections, and cancellations in the standard manner as prescribed by Dick-Nielsen (2009) and Dick-Nielsen (2014). The end-of-day bond clean price is the volume-weighted price of all eligible trades within each day _d_ of month _t_ that register par volume equal to or greater than $ 10,000, `entrd vol qt` _≥_ $ `10,000` . We are careful to not filter out bond trades ( `rptd` ~~`p`~~ `r` ) that have a price of less than $ 5 or greater than $ 1,000. Imposing this filter introduces look-ahead bias into the out-of-sample portfolio results based on monthly data.[40] 

## **BAML database** 

The BAML data is provided by ICE and contains daily bond price quotes, accrued interest, and a host of pre-computed corporate bond characteristics such as the bond option-adjusted credit spread, the asset swap spread, duration, convexity, and bond returns in excess of a portfolio of duration-matched Treasuries. The ICE sample spans the time period 1997:01 to 2022:12 and includes constituent bonds from the ICE Bank of America High Yield (H0A0) and Investment Grade (C0A0) Corporate Bond Indices. To align the ICE sample with the WRDS sample, we use a sample end date of September 2022. 

## **ICE bond filters** 

We follow Binsbergen, Nozawa, and Schwert (2024) and take the last quote of each month to form the bond-month panel. We then merge the ICE data with FISD, which has had the same filters applied to it as discussed above. The following ICE-specific filters are then applied: 

1. Only include corporate bonds, `Ind` ~~`L`~~ `vl` ~~`1`~~ `== ‘corporate’` . 

2. Only include bonds issued by U.S. firms, `Country == ‘US’` . 

3. Only include corporate bonds denominated in U.S. Dollars, `Currency == ‘USD’` . 

## **ICE bond returns** 

Total bond returns are computed in a standard manner in ICE, and no assumptions about the timing of the last trading day of the month are made because the data is quote based, i.e., there is always a valid quote at month-end to compute a bond return. This means that each bond return is computed using a price quote at exactly the end of the month, each and every month. This introduces homogeneity into the bond 

> 40We thank Avanidhar Subrahmanyam for pointing this out to us. 

35 

returns because prices are sampled at exactly the same time each month. ICE only provides bid-side pricing, meaning bid-ask bias is inherently not present in the monthly sampled prices, returns, and credit spreads. See Andreani, Palhares, and Richardson (2023) and Lair and Blonk (2024) for the differences between the ICE and TRACE bond data. 

36 

## **References** 

- Ambastha, Madhur, Arik Ben Dor, Lev Dynkin, Jay Hyman, and Vadim Konstantinovsky, 2010, Empirical duration of corporate bonds and credit market segmentation, _Journal of Fixed Income_ 20, 5–27. 

- Andreani, Martina, Diogo Palhares, and Scott Richardson, 2023, Computing corporate bond returns: A word (or two) of caution, _Review of Accounting Studies_ forthcoming. 

- Andrews, Donald W. K., and J. Christopher Monahan, 1992, An improved heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix estimator, _Econometrica_ 60, 953–966. 

- Asparouhova, Elena, Hendrik Bessembinder, and Ivalina Kalcheva, 2010, Liquidity biases in asset pricing tests, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 96, 215–237. 

- Asparouhova, Elena, Hendrik Bessembinder, and Ivalina Kalcheva, 2013, Noisy prices and inference regarding returns, _Journal of Finance_ 68, 665–714. 

- Bai, Jennie, Turan G. Bali, and Quan Wen, 2019, RETRACTED: Common risk factors in the cross-section of corporate bond returns, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 131, 619–642. 

- Bai, Jennie, Turan G. Bali, and Quan Wen, 2021, Is there a risk-return tradeoff in the corporate bond market? Time-series and cross-sectional evidence, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 142, 1017–1037. 

- Bai, Jennie, Turan G. Bali, and Quan Wen, 2023, Replication of BBW factors with WRDS data, Working Paper. 

- Bali, Turan G., Heiner Beckmeyer, and Amit Goyal, 2023, A joint factor model for bonds, stocks, and options, Working Paper. 

- Bali, Turan G., Amit Goyal, Dashan Huang, Fuwei Jiang, and Quan Wen, 2020, Predicting corporate bond returns: Merton meets machine learning, Working Paper. 

- Bali, Turan G., Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and Quan Wen, 2017, Return-based factors for corporate bonds, Working Paper. 

- Bali, Turan G., Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and Quan Wen, 2021, Long-term reversals in the corporate bond market, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 139, 656–677. 

37 

- Bao, Jack, Jun Pan, and Jiang Wang, 2011, The illiquidity of corporate bonds, _Journal of Finance_ 66, 911–946. 

- Bartram, S¨ohnke M., Mark Grinblatt, and Yoshio Nozawa, 2024, Book-to-market, mispricing, and the crosssection of corporate bond returns, _Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis_ forthcoming. 

- Benjamini, Yoav, and Yosef Hochberg, 1995, Controlling the false discovery rate: A practical and powerful approach to multiple testing, _Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Methodological)_ 57, 289– 300. 

- Bessembinder, Hendrik, Kathleen M. Kahle, William F. Maxwell, and Danielle Xu, 2008, Measuring abnormal bond performance, _Review of Financial Studies_ 22, 4219–4258. 

- Binsbergen, Jules H. van, Yoshio Nozawa, and Michael Schwert, 2024, Duration-based valuation of corporate bonds, _Review of Financial Studies_ forthcoming. 

- Blonk, Joris, and Philip Messow, 2024, How to construct a long-only multifactor credit portfolio?, Working Paper. 

- Blume, Marshall E., and Robert F. Stambaugh, 1983, Biases in computed returns: An application to the size effect, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 12, 387–404. 

- Cao, Jie, Amit Goyal, Xiao Xiao, and Xintong Zhan, 2023, Implied volatility changes and corporate bond returns, _Management Science_ 69, 1375–1397. 

- Cattaneo, Matias D., Richard K. Crump, Max H. Farrell, and Ernst Schaumburg, 2020, Characteristic-sorted portfolios: Estimation and inference, _Review of Economics and Statistics_ 102, 531–551. 

- Ceballos, Luis, 2022, Inflation volatility risk and the cross-section of corporate bond returns, Working Paper. 

- Chen, Zhongtian, Nikolai L. Roussanov, Xiaoliang Wang, and Dongchen Zou, 2024, Common risk factors in the returns on stocks, bonds (and options), redux, Working Paper. 

- Chordia, Tarun, Amit Goyal, Yoshio Nozawa, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and Qing Tong, 2017, Are capital market anomalies common to equity and corporate bond markets? An empirical investigation, _Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis_ 52, 1301–1342. 

38 

- Dang, Thuy Duong, Fabian Hollstein, and Marcel Prokopczuk, 2023, Which factors for corporate bond returns?, _Review of Asset Pricing Studies_ 13, 615–652. 

Dick-Nielsen, Jens, 2009, Liquidity biases in TRACE, _Journal of Fixed Income_ 19, 43–55. 

Dick-Nielsen, Jens, 2014, How to clean Enhanced TRACE data, Working Paper. 

- Dick-Nielsen, Jens, Peter Feldh¨utter, Lasse Heje Pedersen, and Christian Stolborg, 2023, Corporate bond factors: Replication failures and a new framework, Working Paper. 

- Dickerson, Alexander, Christian Julliard, and Philippe Mueller, 2023a, The corporate bond factor zoo, Working Paper. 

- Dickerson, Alexander, Philippe Mueller, and Cesare Robotti, 2023b, Priced risk in corporate bonds, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 150, article 103707. 

- Dickerson, Alexander, Yoshio Nozawa, and Cesare Robotti, 2024, Factor investing with delays, Working Paper. 

- Duan, Tinghua, Frank Weikai Li, and Quan Wen, 2023, Is carbon risk priced in the cross-section of corporate bond returns?, _Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis_ forthcoming. 

- Duarte, Jefferson, Christopher S. Jones, Mehdi Khorram, Haitao Mo, and Junbo L. Wang, 2024a, Too good to be true: Look-ahead bias in empirical options research, Working Paper. 

- Duarte, Jefferson, Christopher S. Jones, and Junbo L. Wang, 2024b, Very noisy option prices and inference regarding the volatility risk premium, _Journal of Finance_ forthcoming. 

- Duffie, Darrell, Nicolae Gˆarleanu, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2005, Over-the-counter markets, _Econometrica_ 73, 1815–1847. 

Fang, Chuck, 2024, Monetary policy amplification through bond fund flows, Working Paper. 

- Galvani, Valentina, and Lifang Li, 2023, Outliers and momentum in the corporate bond market, _Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance_ 89, 135–148. 

- Gebhardt, William R., Soeren Hvidkjaer, and Bhaskaran Swaminathan, 2005, Stock and bond market interaction: Does momentum spill over?, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 75, 651–690. 

39 

- Gilchrist, Simon, and Egon Zakrajˇsek, 2012, Credit spreads and business cycle fluctuations, _American Economic Review_ 102, 1692–1720. 

- Greene, William H., 2012, _Econometric Analysis_ , 7th edition (Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ). 

- Guo, Xu, Hai Lin, Chunchi Wu, and Guofu Zhou, 2022, Predictive information in corporate bond yields, _Journal of Financial Markets_ 59, article 100687. 

- Hendershott, Terrence, Roman Kozhan, and Vikas Raman, 2020, Short selling and price discovery in corporate bonds, _Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis_ 55, 77–115. 

- Houweling, Patrick, and Jeroen Van Zundert, 2017, Factor investing in the corporate bond market, _Financial Analysts Journal_ 73, 100–115. 

- Israel, Ronen, Diogo Palhares, and Scott A. Richardson, 2017, Common factors in corporate bond returns, _Journal of Investment Management_ . 

- Ivashchenko, Alexey, 2024, Corporate bond price reversals, _Journal of Financial Markets_ 68, article 100880. 

- Ivashchenko, Alexey, and Robert Kosowski, 2024, Transaction costs and capacity of systematic corporate bond strategies, _Financial Analysts Journal_ forthcoming. 

- Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, 1990, Evidence of predictable behavior of security returns, _Journal of Finance_ 45, 881–898. 

- Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, and Sheridan Titman, 1993, Returns to buying winners and selling losers: Implications for stock market efficiency, _Journal of Finance_ 48, 65–91. 

- Jensen, Theis Ingerslev, Bryan Kelly, and Lasse Heje Pedersen, 2023, Is there a replication crisis in finance?, _Journal of Finance_ 78, 2465–2518. 

- Jostova, Gergana, Stanislava Nikolova, and Alexander Philipov, 2024, Data uncertainty in corporate bonds, Working Paper. 

- Jostova, Gergana, Stanislava Nikolova, Alexander Philipov, and Christof W. Stahel, 2013, Momentum in corporate bond returns, _Review of Financial Studies_ 26, 1649–1693. 

- Kaul, Gautam, and Mahendrarajah Nimalendran, 1990, Price reversals: Bid-ask errors or market overreaction?, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 28, 67–93. 

40 

- Kelly, Bryan, Diogo Palhares, and Seth Pruitt, 2023, Modeling corporate bond returns, _Journal of Finance_ 78, 1967–2008. 

- Kelly, Bryan, and Seth Pruitt, 2022, Reconciling TRACE bond returns, Working Paper. 

- Khang, Kenneth, and Tao-Hsien Dolly King, 2004, Return reversals in the bond market: Evidence and causes, _Journal of Banking and Finance_ 28, 569–593. 

- Lair, Thibault, and Joris Blonk, 2024, Valuations in the dark: When independent valuators influence corporate bond returns, Working Paper. 

- Li, Lifang, 2024, Explaining the relationship between outliers and momentum in corporate bonds: Less bad news is more, Working Paper. 

- Li, Sophia Zhengzi, Peixuan Yuan, and Guofu Zhou, 2023, Risk-based momentum of corporate bonds, Working Paper. 

- Lin, Hai, Junbo Wang, and Chunchi Wu, 2014, Predictions of corporate bond excess returns, _Journal of Financial Markets_ 21, 123–152. 

- Lin, Hai, Chunchi Wu, and Guofu Zhou, 2018, Forecasting corporate bond returns with a large set of predictors: An iterated combination approach, _Management Science_ 64, 4218–4238. 

- Muravyev, Dmitriy, Neil D. Pearson, and Joshua Matthew Pollet, 2022, Anomalies and their short-sale costs, Working Paper. 

- Newey, Whitney K., and Kenneth D. West, 1987, A simple, positive semi-definite, heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix, _Econometrica_ 55, 703–708. 

- Newey, Whitney K., and Kenneth D. West, 1994, Automatic lag selection in covariance matrix estimation, _Review of Economic Studies_ 61, 631–653. 

- Nozawa, Yoshio, Yancheng Qiu, and Yan Xiong, 2022, Disagreement and bond PEAD, Working Paper. 

- Palhares, Diogo, and Scott Richardson, 2020, Looking under the hood of active credit managers, _Financial Analysts Journal_ 76, 82–102. 

- Wu, Botao, 2022, Post-crisis regulations, trading delays, and increasing corporate bond liquidity premium, Working Paper. 

41 

Table 1: Measurement error and short-term reversal strategies. The table presents monthly average excess _− −_ returns and single-factor CAPMB alphas for the past winner (P1), loser (P10), and loser winner (P10 P1) portfolios from decile sorts using the sign-corrected short-term reversal signal. The _STREV[∗]_ portfolios are constructed using the MMN-adjusted short-term reversal signals based on the publicly available TRACE bond data from OSBAP with a one-day implementation lag. The _STREV[ICE]_ portfolios are constructed using the prior-month returns based on the BAML bond data provided by ICE and are MMN-free by construction. The _STREV[MMN]_ portfolios are constructed using the unadjusted prior-month bond returns based on the TRACE data from WRDS. Panel A uses bond market capitalization as the weighting scheme. Panel B is for equal weighting. Panel C uses prior-month gross bond returns (1+ _Ri,t_ ) as weights based on Asparouhova, Bessembinder, and Kalcheva (2010, 2013). We report Newey-West _t_ -statistics with 3 lags in parentheses. Panels A, B, and C are based on the sample period 2002:09 to 2022:09 (241 months). All portfolios are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period and are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. 

Panel A: Value weight (bond market capitalization) 

||Panel A: Value weight (bond market capitalization)|
|---|---|
|_STREV ∗_<br>_STREV ICE_<br>_STREV MMN_|Average return<br>CAPMB alpha<br>P1 (Winner)<br>P10 (Loser)<br>P10_−_P1<br>P1 (Winner)<br>P10 (Loser)<br>P10_−_P1<br>0.63<br>0.66<br>0.03<br>0.18<br>0.06<br>_−_0.13<br>(3.13)<br>(2.88)<br>(0.26)<br>(2.34)<br>(0.49)<br>(_−_0.85)<br>0.56<br>0.62<br>0.06<br>0.14<br>0.03<br>_−_0.11<br>(2.80)<br>(2.73)<br>(0.44)<br>(1.71)<br>(0.29)<br>(_−_0.77)<br>0.26<br>1.16<br>0.90<br>_−_0.16<br>0.52<br>0.69<br>(1.31)<br>(4.34)<br>(4.79)<br>(_−_1.77)<br>(3.35)<br>(3.34)<br>Panel B: Equal weight (1/_N_)|
|_STREV ∗_<br>_STREV ICE_<br>_STREV MMN_|0.84<br>0.54<br>_−_0.30<br>0.39<br>_−_0.05<br>_−_0.44<br>(3.55)<br>(2.04)<br>(_−_2.44)<br>(3.79)<br>(_−_0.39)<br>(_−_3.14)<br>0.76<br>0.56<br>_−_0.20<br>0.33<br>_−_0.00<br>_−_0.33<br>(3.14)<br>(2.09)<br>(_−_1.33)<br>(2.93)<br>(_−_0.02)<br>(_−_2.10)<br>0.28<br>1.28<br>1.00<br>_−_0.14<br>0.65<br>0.79<br>(1.25)<br>(4.10)<br>(5.05)<br>(_−_1.31)<br>(3.58)<br>(3.83)<br>Panel C: Gross return weight (1+_Ri,t_)|
|_STREV ∗_<br>_STREV ICE_<br>_STREV MMN_|0.86<br>0.48<br>_−_0.38<br>0.39<br>_−_0.11<br>_−_0.50<br>(3.48)<br>(1.88)<br>(_−_2.90)<br>(3.55)<br>(_−_0.80)<br>(_−_3.53)<br>0.78<br>0.52<br>_−_0.25<br>0.33<br>_−_0.04<br>_−_0.37<br>(3.02)<br>(1.96)<br>(_−_1.65)<br>(2.72)<br>(_−_0.33)<br>(_−_2.40)<br>0.31<br>1.24<br>0.93<br>_−_0.13<br>0.62<br>0.75<br>(1.31)<br>(4.15)<br>(4.95)<br>(_−_1.08)<br>(3.66)<br>(3.74)|



42 

Table 2: Measurement error and short-term reversal/momentum strategies for investment and noninvestment grade bonds. The table presents average excess returns and single-factor CAPMB alphas for the loser _−_ winner (P10-P1) portfolio from decile sorts using the sign-corrected short-term reversal signal. We split bonds into investment grade (those rated AAA to BBB _−_ ) and noninvestment grade (BB+ to D). Panel A presents average returns and Panel B presents CAPMB alphas. We use bond market capitalization for the value-weighting scheme. The _STREV[∗]_ portfolios are constructed using the MMN-adjusted short-term reversal signals based on the publicly available TRACE bond data from OSBAP with a one-day implementation lag. The _STREV[ICE]_ portfolios are constructed using the prior-month returns based on the BAML bond data provided by ICE and are MMN-free by construction. The _STREV[MMN]_ portfolios are constructed using the unadjusted prior-month bond returns based on the TRACE data from WRDS. We report Newey-West _t_ -statistics with 3 lags in parentheses. Panels A and B are based on the sample period 2002:09 to 2022:09 (241 months). All portfolios are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period and are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. 

Panel A: Average returns 

||Panel A: Average returns||
|---|---|---|
|_STREV ∗_<br>_STREV ICE_<br>_STREV MMN_|Value weight<br>IG<br>NIG<br>0.11<br>0.05<br>(1.14)<br>(0.15)<br>0.14<br>_−_0.11<br>(1.20)<br>(_−_0.33)<br>1.08<br>0.85<br>(6.50)<br>(2.16)<br>Panel B: CAPMB alphas|Equal weight<br>IG<br>NIG<br>0.06<br>_−_0.64<br>(0.69)<br>(_−_2.66)<br>0.16<br>_−_0.57<br>(1.39)<br>(_−_2.07)<br>1.42<br>0.69<br>(7.90)<br>(2.00)|
|_STREV ∗_<br>_STREV ICE_<br>_STREV MMN_|0.05<br>_−_0.31<br>(0.36)<br>(_−_1.00)<br>0.06<br>_−_0.55<br>(0.44)<br>(_−_1.86)<br>0.98<br>0.40<br>(4.46)<br>(1.13)|_−_0.00<br>_−_0.88<br>(_−_0.04)<br>(_−_3.26)<br>0.09<br>_−_0.82<br>(0.67)<br>(_−_2.74)<br>1.31<br>0.33<br>(6.13)<br>(0.97)|



43 

Table 3: Measurement error and bond price-based strategies. The table presents average excess returns and single-factor CAPMB alphas for the short leg (P1), long leg (P10), and high _−_ low portfolio (P10 _−_ P1) from decile sorts using sign-corrected (where appropriate) bond price-based signals. We include all bonds rated AAA to D. _Yield_ , _Spread_ , _6m_ ∆ _Spread_ , and _Price_ are the corporate bond yield, credit spread, six-month change in log credit spreads, and price signals, respectively. The rows indicate whether the signals have been adjusted for measurement error or not. TRACE _[∗]_ uses the MMN-adjusted price signals based on the publicly available TRACE bond data from OSBAP with a one-day implementation lag. ICE is for the bid-side price signals from the BAML bond quote-based database provided by ICE and is MMN-free by construction. TRACE _[MMN]_ employs unadjusted signals based on the TRACE data from WRDS and is affected by measurement error. For all rows, the data spans the period 2002:09 to 2022:09 (241 months). We use bond market capitalization for our value-weighted scheme. We report Newey-West _t_ -statistics with 3 lags in parentheses. All portfolios are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period and are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. 

Panel A: _Yield_ 

||Panel A: _Yield_||
|---|---|---|
|TRACE_∗_<br>ICE<br>TRACE_MMN_|Average return<br>P1<br>P10<br>P10_−_P1<br>0.20<br>1.15<br>0.95<br>(4.81)<br>(3.04)<br>(2.61)<br>0.18<br>1.12<br>0.94<br>(4.18)<br>(2.87)<br>(2.55)<br>0.08<br>1.28<br>1.20<br>(1.63)<br>(3.28)<br>(3.19)<br>Panel B: _Spread_|CAPMB alpha<br>P1<br>P10<br>P10_−_P1<br>0.12<br>0.44<br>0.33<br>(3.97)<br>(2.05)<br>(1.42)<br>0.09<br>0.42<br>0.33<br>(3.11)<br>(1.91)<br>(1.43)<br>_−_0.01<br>0.55<br>0.56<br>(_−_0.17)<br>(2.50)<br>(2.36)|
|TRACE_∗_<br>ICE<br>TRACE_MMN_|0.23<br>1.12<br>0.89<br>(4.02)<br>(3.02)<br>(2.48)<br>0.20<br>1.06<br>0.86<br>(3.38)<br>(2.82)<br>(2.40)<br>0.13<br>1.24<br>1.11<br>(2.46)<br>(3.26)<br>(3.01)<br>Panel C: _6m_∆_Spread_|0.11<br>0.43<br>0.32<br>(3.01)<br>(2.00)<br>(1.34)<br>0.06<br>0.39<br>0.32<br>(1.72)<br>(1.79)<br>(1.37)<br>0.01<br>0.54<br>0.53<br>(0.23)<br>(2.46)<br>(2.23)|
|TRACE_∗_<br>ICE<br>TRACE_MMN_|0.23<br>0.73<br>0.50<br>(2.94)<br>(2.83)<br>(2.21)<br>0.13<br>0.81<br>0.68<br>(1.44)<br>(3.20)<br>(3.02)<br>0.02<br>1.10<br>1.07<br>(0.31)<br>(4.02)<br>(4.41)<br>Panel D: _Price_|0.03<br>0.29<br>0.26<br>(0.45)<br>(2.03)<br>(1.57)<br>_−_0.10<br>0.34<br>0.44<br>(_−_1.33)<br>(2.45)<br>(2.44)<br>_−_0.20<br>0.61<br>0.80<br>(_−_3.18)<br>(4.09)<br>(4.50)|
|TRACE_∗_<br>ICE<br>TRACE_MMN_|0.34<br>1.14<br>0.80<br>(2.38)<br>(2.94)<br>(2.39)<br>0.29<br>1.13<br>0.84<br>(2.02)<br>(2.85)<br>(2.43)<br>0.18<br>1.24<br>1.06<br>(1.27)<br>(3.11)<br>(3.01)|0.01<br>0.38<br>0.37<br>(0.13)<br>(2.25)<br>(1.61)<br>_−_0.03<br>0.39<br>0.42<br>(_−_0.34)<br>(2.22)<br>(1.73)<br>_−_0.14<br>0.46<br>0.60<br>(_−_1.72)<br>(2.60)<br>(2.51)|



44 

Table 4: Feasible strategy return decomposition. The table presents high _−_ low average strategy returns [Sharpe ratios] and CAPMB alphas [information ratios] for the infeasible (Noisy) and feasible (Feasible) strategies and for the bias term (Bias), which is defined as the difference between the two. All signals have been sign-corrected to be increasing in average returns. The infeasible high _−_ low strategy is constructed with the unadjusted TRACE price-based signals, while the feasible high _−_ low strategy is constructed with the MMN-adjusted TRACE price-based signals. _STREV_ , _Yield_ , _Spread_ , _6m_ ∆ _Spread_ , and _Price_ are the corporate bond short-term reversal, yield, credit spread, six-month change in log credit spread, and price signals, respectively. The Feasible strategies use the MMNadjusted signals based on the publicly available TRACE data from OSBAP with a one-day implementation lag. The Noisy strategies use the unadjusted signals based on the TRACE data from WRDS and are affected by MMN. The data spans the period 2002:09 to 2022:09 (241 months). The Noisy (Feasible) portfolios are value-weighted by their unadjusted (MMN-adjusted) bond market capitalization. All portfolios are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period and are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. Returns and alphas are monthly and in percent. The Sharpe and information ratios have been annualized. 

|Strategy|Panel A: Average return|Panel B: CAPMB alpha|
|---|---|---|
|_STREV_<br>_Yield_<br>_Spread_<br>_6m_∆_Spread_<br>_Price_|Noisy<br>Feasible<br>Bias<br>0.90<br>0.03<br>0.87<br>(4.79)<br>(0.26)<br>(8.31)<br>[0.96]<br>[0.05]<br>[2.55]<br>1.20<br>0.95<br>0.25<br>(3.19)<br>(2.61)<br>(5.88)<br>[0.86]<br>[0.69]<br>[1.79]<br>1.11<br>0.89<br>0.22<br>(3.01)<br>(2.48)<br>(6.53)<br>[0.81]<br>[0.66]<br>[2.11]<br>1.02<br>0.50<br>0.52<br>(4.22)<br>(2.21)<br>(9.13)<br>[1.19]<br>[0.60]<br>[2.99]<br>1.06<br>0.80<br>0.26<br>(3.01)<br>(2.39)<br>(5.53)<br>[0.83]<br>[0.64]<br>[1.61]|Noisy<br>Feasible<br>Bias<br>0.69<br>_−_0.13<br>0.81<br>(3.34)<br>(_−_0.85)<br>(8.13)<br>[0.79]<br>[_−_0.18]<br>[2.47]<br>0.56<br>0.33<br>0.23<br>(2.36)<br>(1.42)<br>(5.84)<br>[0.57]<br>[0.34]<br>[1.71]<br>0.53<br>0.32<br>0.21<br>(2.23)<br>(1.34)<br>(6.03)<br>[0.52]<br>[0.31]<br>[2.07]<br>0.78<br>0.26<br>0.52<br>(4.35)<br>(1.57)<br>(9.04)<br>[1.03]<br>[0.36]<br>[2.96]<br>0.60<br>0.37<br>0.23<br>(2.51)<br>(1.61)<br>(5.31)<br>[0.57]<br>[0.36]<br>[1.49]|



45 

Table 5: Ex-post return winsorization and out-of-sample strategy performance. The table presents high _−_ low average strategy returns [Sharpe ratios] and CAPMB alphas [information ratios] for the winsorized (Infeasible) and feasible (Feasible) strategies and for the bias term (Bias), which is defined as the difference between the two. The _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) corporate bond momentum strategies are from Jostova, Nikolova, Philipov, and Stahel (2013) and Jostova, Nikolova, and Philipov (2024), and they are formed with returns winsorized in the right tail at the 99.5[th] percentile. _LTREV_ is the long-term reversal strategy as in Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen (2021), computed with returns winsorized in the left tail at the 0.5[th] percentile. The 95% _V aR, Rating,_ and _ILLIQ_ strategies are formed with the rolling 95% value-at-risk, rating, and illiquidity characteristics from Bai, Bali, and Wen (2019) and Bai, Bali, and Wen (2023). The _V OL_ strategy is formed with rolling 36-month bond total variance as in Bai, Bali, and Wen (2021). The 95% _V aR, Rating, ILLIQ,_ and _V OL_ strategies all use returns winsorized in the left tail at the 0.50[th] percentile. All strategies are formed with the publicly available TRACE bond data from OSBAP. The portfolios are value-weighted by their bond par amount outstanding (face values). All portfolios except for _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period. The _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) portfolios are rebalanced every 3 and 6 months, respectively, based on the overlapping methodology of Jegadeesh and Titman (1993). All portfolios are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. We report Newey-West _t_ -statistics with 3 lags in parentheses. Returns and alphas are monthly and in percent. The Sharpe and information ratios have been annualized. 

|Strategy<br>Tail|Panel A: Average return|Panel B: CAPMB alpha|
|---|---|---|
|_MOM_(3_,_3)<br>Right<br>_MOM_(6_,_6)<br>Right<br>_LTREV_<br>Left<br>95% _V aR_<br>Left<br>_Rating_<br>Left<br>_ILLIQ_<br>Left<br>_V OL_<br>Left|Infeasible<br>Feasible<br>Bias<br>0.38<br>0.07<br>0.31<br>(2.14)<br>(0.33)<br>(2.11)<br>[0.54]<br>[0.08]<br>[0.72]<br>0.33<br>_−_0.06<br>0.39<br>(1.66)<br>(_−_0.21)<br>(2.09)<br>[0.42]<br>[_−_0.06]<br>[0.73]<br>0.51<br>0.30<br>0.21<br>(2.74)<br>(1.46)<br>(3.57)<br>[0.75]<br>[0.39]<br>[1.06]<br>0.74<br>0.54<br>0.20<br>(3.01)<br>(2.13)<br>(2.85)<br>[0.82]<br>[0.56]<br>[0.96]<br>0.66<br>0.47<br>0.19<br>(2.94)<br>(1.93)<br>(2.99)<br>[0.85]<br>[0.51]<br>[0.95]<br>0.36<br>0.28<br>0.08<br>(2.95)<br>(2.27)<br>(3.45)<br>[0.92]<br>[0.69]<br>[1.17]<br>0.78<br>0.59<br>0.19<br>(3.27)<br>(2.40)<br>(3.03)<br>[0.87]<br>[0.61]<br>[1.02]|Infeasible<br>Feasible<br>Bias<br>0.44<br>0.25<br>0.19<br>(2.54)<br>(1.35)<br>(1.93)<br>[0.64]<br>[0.29]<br>[0.49]<br>0.45<br>0.20<br>0.25<br>(2.21)<br>(0.92)<br>(1.94)<br>[0.59]<br>[0.20]<br>[0.51]<br>0.47<br>0.26<br>0.21<br>(3.01)<br>(1.40)<br>(3.28)<br>[0.69]<br>[0.34]<br>[1.08]<br>0.26<br>0.03<br>0.23<br>(2.25)<br>(0.24)<br>(2.92)<br>[0.51]<br>[0.05]<br>[1.22]<br>0.44<br>0.22<br>0.22<br>(2.33)<br>(1.00)<br>(3.02)<br>[0.58]<br>[0.27]<br>[1.15]<br>0.22<br>0.13<br>0.09<br>(3.43)<br>(1.80)<br>(3.16)<br>[0.85]<br>[0.40]<br>[1.35]<br>0.33<br>0.09<br>0.24<br>(2.42)<br>(0.74)<br>(3.09)<br>[0.60]<br>[0.17]<br>[1.28]|



46 

Table 6: OSBAP data uncertainty for corporate bond strategies. The table presents the standard deviation (SD), minimum (Min), and maximum (Max) values of the _t_ -statistics, and the percentage of the _t_ -statistics that are greater than 1.96 across hundreds of potential datasets. Panel A (B) reports the _t_ -statistics associated with average returns (CAPMB alphas). For each of the twelve bond strategy signals described in the text, we generate 108 (120) ex-ante (ex-post) filtered datasets and then construct the equal- and value-weight strategy returns, which produces 216 (240) possible outcomes for each strategy. Across the 12 strategies with the ex-ante and ex-post filtered datasets, we have a total of 5,472 strategies. The data is downloadable from OSBAP. We employ `PyBondLab` to form quintile portfolios with all bonds rated AAA to D and a one-month holding period. The data spans the period 2002:09 to 2022:09 (241 months). The standard errors used to form the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

Panel A: Average returns 

||Panel A: Average returns||
|---|---|---|
|Strategy|Ex-ante<br>SD<br>Min<br>Max<br>_>_1.96|Ex-post<br>SD<br>Min<br>Max<br>_>_1.96|
|_Amount Outstanding_<br>_BondAge_<br>_Price_<br>_BondY ield_<br>_Coupon_<br>_6m_∆_Spread_<br>_Duration_<br>_ILLIQ_<br>_Maturity_<br>_Rating_<br>_Size_<br>_Spread_|0.30<br>0.44<br>1.59<br>0.00<br>0.20<br>0.92<br>1.65<br>0.00<br>0.12<br>2.17<br>2.81<br>100<br>0.11<br>2.60<br>3.10<br>100<br>0.13<br>1.82<br>2.44<br>87.96<br>0.31<br>1.88<br>2.84<br>92.59<br>0.27<br>0.63<br>1.48<br>0.00<br>0.18<br>2.88<br>3.79<br>100<br>0.03<br>1.45<br>1.66<br>0.00<br>0.08<br>1.85<br>2.23<br>85.65<br>0.18<br>1.32<br>2.12<br>14.81<br>0.11<br>2.43<br>2.92<br>100<br>Panel B: CAPMB alphas|0.70<br>_−_1.27<br>4.92<br>5.42<br>0.23<br>0.66<br>1.80<br>0.00<br>0.77<br>_−_1.20<br>5.41<br>86.25<br>0.76<br>_−_0.17<br>6.26<br>92.08<br>0.77<br>_−_0.58<br>6.15<br>77.08<br>0.77<br>_−_0.78<br>4.51<br>77.08<br>0.38<br>_−_0.01<br>2.13<br>0.83<br>0.69<br>_−_0.15<br>6.24<br>95.42<br>0.09<br>1.03<br>2.14<br>0.83<br>0.76<br>_−_0.76<br>5.64<br>59.58<br>1.13<br>_−_2.97<br>5.61<br>38.33<br>0.77<br>_−_0.25<br>6.10<br>90.00|
|_Amount Outstanding_<br>_BondAge_<br>_Price_<br>_BondY ield_<br>_Coupon_<br>_6m_∆_Spread_<br>_Duration_<br>_ILLIQ_<br>_Maturity_<br>_Rating_<br>_Size_<br>_Spread_|0.21<br>0.90<br>1.79<br>0.00<br>0.17<br>_−_1.85<br>_−_1.15<br>0.00<br>0.13<br>0.97<br>1.59<br>0.00<br>0.13<br>0.88<br>1.46<br>0.00<br>0.12<br>0.36<br>0.99<br>0.00<br>0.25<br>0.93<br>1.78<br>0.00<br>0.08<br>_−_1.57<br>_−_1.24<br>0.00<br>0.30<br>1.36<br>2.67<br>58.33<br>0.06<br>_−_1.41<br>_−_1.15<br>0.00<br>0.08<br>0.82<br>1.25<br>0.00<br>0.18<br>0.93<br>1.70<br>0.00<br>0.13<br>0.86<br>1.45<br>0.00|0.73<br>_−_0.36<br>6.08<br>13.75<br>0.27<br>_−_2.51<br>_−_0.68<br>0.00<br>0.87<br>_−_1.87<br>5.38<br>14.17<br>1.03<br>_−_1.97<br>6.37<br>14.17<br>0.83<br>_−_1.30<br>5.73<br>7.50<br>0.80<br>_−_1.46<br>4.45<br>13.75<br>0.34<br>_−_2.53<br>_−_0.10<br>0.00<br>0.86<br>_−_1.27<br>6.15<br>57.08<br>0.16<br>_−_1.74<br>_−_0.23<br>0.00<br>0.77<br>_−_1.02<br>5.44<br>9.17<br>1.15<br>_−_2.25<br>6.61<br>20.83<br>0.97<br>_−_1.75<br>6.10<br>12.50|



47 

**==> picture [422 x 198] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
pt,d pt,d + n<br>Pt− 1 Pt<br>Last Last<br>5 business days 5 business days<br>of the month of the month<br>(A) Short-term reversal correction<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [35 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
pt,d− 1<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [247 x 80] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Pt Pt +1<br>Last Last<br>5 business days 5 business days<br>of the month of the month<br>(B) Price-based signal correction<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 1: Transaction timing of prices used for bond short-term reversal and price-based signals. 

Transaction timing of prices used for the bond short-term reversal signal (Panel A) and for any bond price-based signal (Panel B). Panel A shows a hypothetical example of how daily bond prices are used to construct the bond short-term reversal signal for month _t_ that is purged of MMN. For any month _t,_ an investor sources the daily bond price on the first available trading day _d, pt,d._ Thereafter, she locates the bond price at least one trading day before the end-of-the-month transaction price _Pt,_ which is denoted by _pt,d_ + _n._ The end-of-the-month transaction price _Pt_ must be within the last five business days of the month. The bond short-term reversal signal for month _t_ is then defined as _pt,dp_ + _t,dn_ + _ct −_ 1, where _ct_ is the coupon payment (if any) over the month. We define _p_ to include any accrued interest. This ensures that the signal prices _p_ are never included in the realized out-of-sample bond returns that use the bond prices _Pt_ in the last five business days of month _t._ In Panel B, for any month _t,_ an investor sources the daily bond price at least one trading day _d_ before the end-of-the-month transaction price _Pt._ This price, denoted by _pt,d−_ 1 _,_ is used to compute any price-based signal, i.e., credit spreads or bond yields. The trader observes the signal and purchases the given bond at price _Pt,_ and she will realize a return over the following month of _PPt_ + _t_ 1 _−_ 1 _._ The end-of-the-month transaction prices _Pt_ must be within the last five business days of the month. This ensures that the signal prices _pt,d−_ 1 are never included in the realized out-of-sample bond returns that use the bond prices _Pt_ in the last five business days of month _t._ 

48 

**==> picture [468 x 209] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Winsorize Rt +1<br>( Pt +1 unknown)<br>Pt +1<br>Rt +1<br>t t  + 1<br>Pt<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## Portfolio formation 

Figure 2: Ex-post winsorization of the return distribution. 

The figure shows a hypothetical example of ex-post trimming/winsorization. Across the entirety of the data, bond returns are winsorized ex-post at a given percentile, that is, they are set equal to an arbitrarily chosen winsorization threshold of the pooled return distribution (across bonds and months). An investor at month _t_ (the first orange dot) will never be able to trim/winsorize the return distribution because the price _Pt_ +1 (the second orange dot) is unknown at the portfolio formation time _t._ 

49 

Figure 3: Characterising look-ahead bias in out-of-sample strategy returns. 

Panels A and C present the time series of the look-ahead bias, _ηt,_ which is defined as the difference in returns on the infeasible strategy (with ex-post winsorized returns) and the feasible strategy. The infeasible strategy has been computed using returns winsorized at the 99.5[th] (0.5[th] ) percentile for _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) (95% _V aR_ ). Panels B and D present scatter plots and best fit lines with the bias on the y axis and the CBOE VIX index on the x axis, both presented in percent per month. The shaded areas represent NBER recession periods. The look-ahead bias is obtained with the `PyBondLab` Python software package and the publicly available TRACE bond data from OSBAP. 

50 

**==> picture [376 x 384] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 4: Accounting for data uncertainty – NIG momentum. 

Panels A and B present ordered _t_ -statistics (high to low) for the 480 long-short (P10 _−_ P1) NIG momentum premia using ex-ante and ex-post filters, respectively. The 120 filters produce 120 datasets. We then use these datasets to compute the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) momentum strategies with equal- and value-weights, which yields 480 strategies for both the ex-ante and ex-post filtered data. Panels C and D present the (asymmetric) right-tail exclusion filters from _>_ 90% to _>_ 20% _._ Bonds are excluded from the sample if their monthly returns exceed these thresholds ex-ante (Panel C) or ex-post (Panel D). We use the unfiltered WRDS bond return data, with returns based on prices in the last five business days of the month ( `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` ). The data spans the period 2002:07 to 2023:12 (258 months). All strategies are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. The standard errors used to construct the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

51 

**==> picture [328 x 492] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 5: Accounting for data uncertainty across ratings, credit spreads, and short-term reversals. 

The figure presents the distribution of the ordered _t_ -statistics (high to low) for 216 (240) ex-ante (ex-post) long-short (Q5 _−_ Q1) strategy premia for bond ratings ( _Rating,_ Panels A and B), credit spreads ( _Spread,_ Panels C and D), and short-term reversals ( _REV,_ Panels E and F) using all bonds in the WRDS sample. 108 (120) ex-ante (ex-post) filters are used in total, which generates 108 (120) unique WRDS bond return datasets with ex-ante (ex-post) filtering. We then use these datasets to compute the respective strategies with equal- and value-weights, which yields 216 (240) ex-ante (ex-post) strategies. We employ the WRDS bond return data, and the returns are based on prices in the last five business days of the month ( `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` ). The data spans the period 2002:07 to 2023:12 (258 months). All strategies are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. The standard errors associated with the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial autocorrelation. 

52 

**==> picture [469 x 458] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 6: Distribution of the _t_ -statistics based on ex-ante and ex-post filtering. 

The figure presents the kernel densities for _t_ -statistics associated with the 216 (240) ex-ante (ex-post) filtered strategy average returns formed with the OSBAP database. The strategies are formed based on bond credit spread ( _Spread_ ), six-month change in log credit spread (6m∆ _Spread_ ), price ( _Price_ ), and illiquidity ( _ILLIQ_ ). For each of these four strategies, we generate 108 (120) ex-ante (ex-post) filtered datasets and then construct the equal- and value-weight strategy returns, which results in 216 and 240 possible outcomes for each strategy, respectively. We employ `PyBondLab` to form quintile portfolios with all bonds rated AAA to D and consider a one-month holding period. The data spans the period 2002:09 to 2022:09 (241 months). The standard errors associated with the reported _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

53 

## Internet Appendix to 

## **Common pitfalls in the evaluation of corporate bond strategies** 

## (Not for publication) 

This Internet Appendix contains further discussion, tables, and figures not presented in the main body of the paper. We use the same notation as in the paper. 

## **A Do data errors rationalize potential replication issues?** 

Unlike CRSP, researchers need to process the TRACE database from scratch, which could introduce errors in the return computation process. In recent work by Dick-Nielsen, Feldh¨utter, Pedersen, and Stolborg, (2023, DFPS henceforth), it is argued that TRACE data errors and different researchers’ cleaning procedures are behind what is deemed to be broad ‘replication failures’ in corporate bonds. Although there are some data points in a processed TRACE database that could be erroneous, they are very few and are certainly not to blame for what could be deemed a ‘replication crisis’ in the corporate bond literature. In this appendix, we carefully show that data errors have little, if anything, to do with bond factors failing to replicate. Given the importance of working with clean data, we investigate whether potential data errors and/or different cleaning methods could play a role in driving broad replication failures, with a focus on the default, credit, and liquidity factors as a laboratory. The results we discuss below hold across all of the factors/anomalies we consider in the paper. 

**Pinning down potential data errors across filtering methods.** To identify potential data errors, we employ a monthly return threshold of _|_ 100% _|._ We identify these possibly erroneous outliers across several TRACE processing methods to rule out the possibility that different TRACE filtering procedures could drive differences in anomaly portfolios. This exercise is conducted for the 

1. Self-processed TRACE data including all transactions with any volume. Data cleaning follows Dick-Nielsen (2009, 2014). Agency trades are not filtered out. 

2. Self-processed TRACE data excluding very small transactions with volume less than $ 10,000 (Bessembinder, Kahle, Maxwell, and Xu, 2008). Data cleaning follows Dick-Nielsen (2009, 2014). Agency trades are not filtered out. 

In all cases, we follow the standard practices advocated by prior work (and used in this paper) as it relates to cleaning bond data such as volume-weighting intraday prices, excluding bonds with less than 12 months to maturity, and excluding bonds without valid S&P or Moody’s ratings. Bonds with prices below $ 5 or greater than $ 1000 are included to avoid look-ahead bias. The factors are value-weighted by bond market capitalization as in DFPS. 

i 

We find that corporate bond factors are materially unaffected by the handling of potential data errors. They are, however, detrimentally affected by asymmetric ex-post winsorization, which is often but incorrectly viewed as a form of data cleaning. To demonstrate the negligible impact of potential data errors, we use the above two datasets and reconstruct the default ( _DRF_ ), credit ( _CRF_ ), and liquidity ( _LRF_ ) factors considered in DFPS to illustrate how (i) data errors do not materially affect results and (ii) the factors can be replicated but only via ex-post winsorization. We present results for when we (i) do not clean returns in any way, (ii) set a possible error or outlier return that is greater (less) than 100% ( _−_ 100%) to that value, and (iii) asymmetrically expost winsorize the left tail of the distribution at the 0.5[th] percentile, i.e., we remove bond returns that are very negative. Panel A, B, and C of Table A1 present the factor means and single-factor _MKTB_ alphas for the two datasets (with and without errors) outlined above and the _DRF_ , _CRF,_ and _LRF_ factors. 

## Table A1 about here 

Across all factors, the only way to generate a statistically significant CAPMB alpha is via (asymmetrically) winsorizing the left tail of the ex-post pooled return distribution. Hence, these factors can be broadly replicated, but only via winsorization. Interestingly, the factor means and alphas are almost identical across the two filtering methods (with and without errors), thus implying that potential data errors have little to no effect on replicability in general. 

**A defence of the WRDS database.** DFPS also claim that the monthly TRACE database, as processed by WRDS, is incorrectly constructed, full of errors, and cannot be properly replicated. To put quantitative rigour to their remarks regarding the WRDS TRACE data, we focus on the self-processed TRACE data (without volume filters, denoted by TRACE-0k) as above and the WRDS TRACE data. We then construct the corporate bond market factor, as a laboratory, using bond returns in excess of the risk-free rate while changing the following parameters that are viewed as a reason of concern in DFPS: 

1. Accrued interest computed with a 0, 2, and 5-day settlement period. 

   - WRDS assume a 0-day settlement period. (BAML from ICE, for example, uses a next-day settlement period.) 

ii 

2. With and without bonds in default (WRDS code `‘DEFAULTED’` ). DFPS argue that the default return computed by the WRDS team cannot be replicated. 

3. With and without truncation of potential outliers at the +100% monthly return level. 

The bond market factor means, standard deviations, and Sharpe ratios are presented in Panels A through C of Table A2 below. 

## Table A2 about here 

In Panel A, varying accrued interest settlement dates makes fractions of a basis point of a difference across the bond market average return, volatility, and Sharpe ratio. As best practice, following the ICE Bond Index Methodology handbook, next-day settlement is generally assumed with the ‘Modified Following Business Day Convention’ applied when settlement occurs on a week-end or a U.S. public holiday. This is partly why we always cross-check our main findings using the ICE data – it has the potential to homogenize empirical findings in corporate bonds. However, as shown above, differences in settlement-date assumptions have an inconsequential impact on results. In Panel B, the handling of returns on bonds that are in default also has an immaterial effect on average returns, standard deviations, and Sharpe ratios. Finally, the return truncation by WRDS at +100% in Panel C is totally irrelevant for the results. Overall, DFPS’s critiques of the WRDS database appear to be unfounded, also in light of the fact the WRDS code is open source, publicly verifiable, and available on the WRDS website. 

**What could drive potential differences in results?** Given that potential data errors and reasonable data cleaning procedures do not rationalize the replication crisis in corporate bonds invoked by DFPS, we now discuss a few empirical design choices explicitly related to TRACE that could deliver different results across specifications. Note, however, that none of these choices lead to material replication issues. As stated above, the only way to partially or fully replicate prior research in bonds is via asymmetric and ex-post trimming/winsorization. 

-  Filtering out agency trades. In important work on intraday data cleaning by Dick-Nielsen (2009, 2014), the issue of agency (or dealer-to-dealer) trades is left to the researcher. These 

iii 

trades comprise roughly 20% of the TRACE sample. In the WRDS TRACE data, for example, these trades are removed. This mechanically reduces the monthly panel that is available to researchers. 

-  Filtering out retail trades. Bessembinder, Kahle, Maxwell, and Xu (2008) provide explicit evidence that including retail trades (those with trading volume below $ 100,000) can bias asset pricing results. The majority of the bond literature does not follow their advice and uses a lower threshold of $ 10,000. In doing so, many illiquid bonds with prices that are more prone to MMN are included in the sample. 

-  Value or equal-weighted portfolios. DFPS rightly advocate for the use of value weighting in corporate bond anomaly/factor construction. The use of equal weights could exacerbate the impact of potential data errors in the TRACE sample. However, given that the vast majority of prior research in bonds utilizes asymmetric (ex-post) winsorization of either one of the tails, the plausibility of a particular weighting scheme affecting replication is reduced. 

## **B Data uncertainty and bond long-term reversals** 

We follow Bali, Subrahmanyam, and Wen (2021) and Subrahmanyam (2023) and compute the bond long-term reversal signal, _LTREV_ (48 _,_ 12), for each bond _i_ in each month _t_ as the 36-month cumulative return sum from month _t −_ 48 to _t −_ 13 _,_ skipping the 12-month momentum effect (from month _t −_ 12 to _t −_ 1) and the short-term reversal month (from month _t −_ 1 to _t_ ). We also consider the _LTREV_ (30 _,_ 6) signal, which is similarly defined as the 24-month cumulative return sum from month _t −_ 30 to _t −_ 7 _,_ skipping the 6-month momentum effect (from month _t −_ 6 to _t −_ 1) and the short-term reversal month (from month _t −_ 1 to _t_ ). Thereafter, we apply our data uncertainty protocol to the unfiltered WRDS bond data and generate 480 ex-ante and ex-post _LTREV_ strategies. We start with 120 possible data filters, which produces 120 ex-ante and expost filtered WRDS bond datasets. We then employ the two _LTREV_ specifications with equaland value-weighting schemes, which generates 480 possible datasets for each filtering method. The _LTREV_ strategies are computed using decile portfolios with a long (short) position in long-term losers (long-term winners). The decile portfolios are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period. All strategies are generated with `PyBondLab` . 

iv 

We present the (unadjusted) ordered (high to low) _t_ -statistics associated with the long-short average returns for All bonds, IG bonds, and NIG bonds with ex-ante and ex-post filters in Fig. A5. Each panel reports 480 _t_ -statistics each. 

## Figure A5 about here 

In Panels A and B, with all bonds, none of the _LTREV_ strategies are significantly different from zero with ex-ante or ex-post data filtering. In Panels C and D, with IG bonds only, the majority of the _LTREV_ premia are negative, indicating that long-term losers underperform long-term winners. However, across both the ex-ante and ex-post filtering schemes, none of the premia are statistically significant. In Panels E and F, using NIG bonds only, the premia are at least mostly positive. Across the 480 ex-ante filtered strategies (Panel E), 12 (2.5%) of the 480 strategies produce premia that are statistically significant at the 5% nominal level. In Panel F, with ex-post filtering, nine (1.875%) of the 480 strategies produce premia that are statistically significant at the 5% nominal level. The top performing strategy is the _LTREV_ (30 _,_ 6) specification with equal weights and ex-post exclusions of any bond return with a value _< −_ 20% month-to-month. 

v 

## **References** 

- Bali, Turan G., Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, and Quan Wen, 2021, Long-term reversals in the corporate bond market, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 139, 656–677. 

- Bessembinder, Hendrik, Kathleen M. Kahle, William F. Maxwell, and Danielle Xu, 2008, Measuring abnormal bond performance, _Review of Financial Studies_ 22, 4219–4258. 

Dick-Nielsen, Jens, 2009, Liquidity biases in TRACE, _Journal of Fixed Income_ 19, 43–55. 

Dick-Nielsen, Jens, 2014, How to clean Enhanced TRACE data, Working Paper. 

- Dick-Nielsen, Jens, Peter Feldh¨utter, Lasse Heje Pedersen, and Christian Stolborg, 2023, Corporate bond factors: Replication failures and a new framework, Working Paper. 

- Subrahmanyam, Avanidhar, 2023, Corporate bond data projects: Some clarifications, Working Paper. 

vi 

Table A1: Summary statistics across datasets with/without data errors and with winsorization. Each panel reports the factor means (Mean) and the single-factor CAPMB alphas (Alpha) for the _DRF, CRF,_ and _LRF_ factors. In each panel, the statistics are computed (i) with errors (Errors), (ii) with any error truncated to be in the interval _−_ 100% to 100% (No Errors), and (iii) with ex-post asymmetric winsorization of the left tail of the return distribution at the 0.5[th] percentile. Panels A to C are based on the 2004:08 to 2022:09 sample period (218 months). 

## Panel A: _DRF_ 

||||Panel A: _DRF_|Panel A: _DRF_|||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||No|volume flter|10k volume||flter|No volume flter|
||Errors|No Errors|Errors|No Errors||Winsorized|
|Mean|0.42|0.41|0.41||0.40|0.54|
||(2.08)|(2.04)|(2.06)||(2.02)|(2.88)|
|Alpha|0.06|0.05|0.06||0.05|0.22|
||(0.49)|(0.42)|(0.47)||(0.41)|(1.71)|
||||Panel B: _CRF_||||



||||Panel B: _CRF_|Panel B: _CRF_|||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
||No|volume flter|10k volume||flter|No volume flter|
||Errors|No Errors|Errors|No Errors||Winsorized|
|Mean|0.23|0.22|0.23||0.21|0.35|
||(1.32)|(1.25)|(1.28)||(1.21)|(2.32)|
|Alpha|0.14|0.13|0.13||0.12|0.28|
||(0.79)|(0.73)|(0.73)||(0.69)|(1.83)|
||||Panel C: _LRF_||||
||No|volume flter|10k volume||flter|No volume flter|
||Errors|No Errors|Errors|No Errors||Winsorized|
|Mean|0.20|0.19|0.19||0.19|0.28|
||(2.07)|(2.01)|(2.09)||(2.04)|(3.20)|
|Alpha|0.07|0.07|0.07||0.07|0.17|
||(0.95)|(0.91)|(1.00)||(0.97)|(2.43)|



vii 

Table A2: Bond market factor statistics for self-processed and WRDS TRACE. Each panel reports the factor mean (Mean), standard deviation (SD), and Sharpe ratio (Sh) of _MKTB,_ the bond market factor. In Panel A, in rows 1, 3, and 4, we present descriptive statistics for _MKTB_ with excess returns based on the self-processed TRACE data (TRACE-0k, without any volume filter) and settlements days of 0, 2, and 5. In row 2, we present summary statistics for _MKTB_ based on the WRDS TRACE data. In Panel B, we employ the WRDS TRACE data only and provide statistics for the _MKTB_ factor with all defaults (row 1), without bonds in default as classified by WRDS (row 2), and without defaulted and D-rated bonds (row 3). In Panel C, we present results for _MKTB_ with and without truncation (rows 1 and 2, respectively). Panels A to C are based on the 2002:09 to 2022:09 sample period (241 months). 

Panel A: Varying accrued-interest settlement days 

|Settlement|days|Data source|Mean|SD|Sh|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|0||TRACE-0k|0.305|1.814|0.168|
|0||WRDS TRACE|0.310|1.776|0.175|
|2||TRACE-0k|0.305|1.816|0.168|
|5||TRACE-0k|0.305|1.814|0.168|



Panel B: With and without defaulted bonds 

|Panel B: With|and without defaulted|bonds|||
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Default|Data source|Mean|SD|Sh|
|With all defaults|WRDS TRACE|0.310|1.776|0.175|
|Without ‘DEFAULTED’|WRDS TRACE|0.311|1.771|0.176|
|Without ‘DEFAULTED’ and D-rated|WRDS TRACE|0.310|1.770|0.175|



Panel C: With and without truncation 

|Truncated|at|+100%|Data|source|Mean|SD|Sh|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|YES|||WRDS|TRACE|0.306|1.774|0.173|
|NO|||WRDS|TRACE|0.310|1.776|0.175|



viii 

Table A3: Summary statistics for various bond databases. Panel A reports the descriptive statistics for the raw data directly downloaded from WRDS. The suffixes `L5M` , `EOM` , and `LDM` stand for bond prices sampled in the last 5 days of the month, any day of the month, and the very last day of the month, respectively. `RATING` ~~`N`~~ `UM` is the S&P numeric bond rating (AAA = 1, _. . . ,_ D = 22). `TMT` is time-to-maturity in years. Panel B reports the descriptive statistics for the BAML/ICE data that has not been filtered beyond including U.S. corporate bonds denominated in USD from the Investment Grade and High Yield BAML indices. Panel C reports the descriptive statistics for a version of the WRDS TRACE database made available on openbondassetpricing.com/data that has been corrected for MMN and cleaned using a set of standard filters documented in the Appendix of the paper. `bond` ~~`r`~~ `et` is the equivalent of `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` , `tmt` is time-to-maturity in months, `BONDPRC` is the MMN-corrected price signal, and `rating` is the S&P numeric bond rating. 

|||Panel A:|WRDS|bond|data (raw)|||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Variable|N|Mean|SD|Min|0.5%<br>25%|50%|75%|99.5%|Max|
|`RET`<br>`L5M` (%)|1,476,753|0.45|4.26|_−_100|_−_15.63_−_0.51|0.30|1.42|15.75|100|
|`RET`<br>`EOM` (%)|1,984,278|0.51|4.69|_−_100|_−_17.06_−_0.55|0.33|1.56|18.15|100|
|`RET`<br>`LDM` (%)|808,330|0.39|4.07|_−_98.55_−_15.72_−_0.49||0.27|1.31|14.48|100|
|`PRICE`<br>`L5M` (% par)|1,803,844|100.72|47.21|0.00|8.68<br>97.90|102.14|108.60|152.21|6532.50|
|`PRICE`<br>`EOM` (% par)|2,374,162|100.64|70.36|0.00|8.16<br>97.25|101.93|108.99|177.50|9989.51|
|`PRICE`<br>`LDM` (% par)|1,137,281|101.44|27.69|0.00|9.65<br>98.23|102.05|107.98|145.85|6532.50|
|`TMT` (years)|2,364,099|8.12|9.52|0.00|0.04<br>2.07|4.82|9.34|39.66|182.63|
|`RATING`<br>`NUM`|1,926,517|8.40|3.39|1|1<br>6|8|10|19|22|



||Panel B: BAML/ICE bond data|Panel B: BAML/ICE bond data|Panel B: BAML/ICE bond data|Panel B: BAML/ICE bond data|Panel B: BAML/ICE bond data|(raw)|||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Variable|N|Mean|SD|Min|0.5%|25%|50%|75%|99.5%|Max|
|`RET`<br>`LDM`|1,798,485|0.45|4.66|_−_99.98_−_16.93_−_0.43|||0.43|1.46|15.55|741.09|
|`PRICE`<br>`LDM`|1,831,070|102.70|14.00|0.00|35.00|98.25|102.75|108.43|144.05|193.41|
|`TMT` (years)|1,831,167|10.14|10.15|0.00|0.97|3.91|6.62|11.29|46.75|100.59|
|`RATING`<br>`NUM`|1,831,167|9.13|3.92|1|1|6|9|11|20|22|



||Panel C: OSBAP bond data (cleaned)|Panel C: OSBAP bond data (cleaned)|Panel C: OSBAP bond data (cleaned)|Panel C: OSBAP bond data (cleaned)|Panel C: OSBAP bond data (cleaned)|||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Variable|N|Mean SD|Min|0.5%|25%|50%|75%|99.5%|Max|
|`bond`<br>`ret`|1,043,178|0.42<br>4.22|_−_97.53_−_15.9||_−_0.56|0.33|1.45|16.01|368.35|
|`BONDPRC`|1,183,393|105.02 16.05|0|40.50|99.68|104.25|110.57|147.02|8491.49|
|`tmt` (months)|1,392,832|122.37 118.97 12.03||12.67|44.67|79.60|163.90|543.85|1217.50|
|`rating`|1,392,832|8.66<br>3.48|1|1|6|8|10|19|22|



ix 

**==> picture [469 x 235] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure A1: Accounting for data uncertainty – IG momentum. 

The figure presents ordered _t_ -statistics (high to low) for the 480 long-short (Q10 _−_ Q1) IG momentum premia using ex-ante filters (Panel A) and ex-post filters (Panel B). The 120 filters produce 120 datasets. We then use these datasets to compute the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) momentum strategies with equal- and value-weights, which yields 480 strategies for both the ex-ante and ex-post filtered data. We use the unfiltered WRDS bond return data, with returns based on prices in the last five business days of the month ( `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` ). The data spans the period 2002:07 to 2023:12 (258 months). All strategies are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. The standard errors used to construct the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

x 

**==> picture [469 x 235] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure A2: Accounting for data uncertainty – All momentum. 

The figure presents ordered _t_ -statistics (high to low) for the 480 long-short (Q10 _−_ Q1) All momentum premia using ex-ante filters (Panel A) and ex-post filters (Panel B). The 120 filters produce 120 datasets. We then use these datasets to compute the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) momentum strategies with equal- and value-weights, which yields 480 strategies for both the ex-ante and ex-post filtered data. We use the unfiltered WRDS bond return data, with returns based on prices in the last five business days of the month ( `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` ). The data spans the period 2002:07 to 2023:12 (258 months). All strategies are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. The standard errors used to construct the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

xi 

**==> picture [424 x 474] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
1 1<br>0.8 0.8<br>0.6 0.6<br>0.4 0.4<br>0.2 0.2<br>0 0<br>-0.2 -0.2<br>-0.4 -0.4<br>1 1<br>0.8 0.8<br>0.6 0.6<br>0.4 0.4<br>0.2 0.2<br>0 0<br>>90%>80%>70%>60%>50%>40%>30%>20% >90%>80%>70%>60%>50%>40%>30%>20%<br><-90%<-80%<-70%<-60%<-50%<-40%<-30%<-20% <-90%<-80%<-70%<-60%<-50%<-40%<-30%<-20%<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure A3: Accounting for data uncertainty – ratings across all bonds. 

The figure presents average high _−_ low monthly portfolio returns from quintile sorts on bond ratings with associated standard error bars for ex-ante (Panels A and C) and ex-post (Panels B and D) asymmetric right- and left-tail return exclusion filters. In Panels A and B, returns are asymmetrically excluded in the right tail only. In Panels C and D, returns are asymmetrically excluded in the left tail only. The rating portfolios are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period. We use the unfiltered WRDS bond return data, with returns based on prices in the last five business days of the month ( `RET` ~~`L`~~ `5M` ). The data spans the period 2002:07 to 2023:12 (258 months). All strategies are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. The standard errors used to construct the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

xii 

**==> picture [469 x 235] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure A4: Accounting for data uncertainty – NIG momentum in ICE data. 

The figure presents ordered _t_ -statistics (high to low) for the 480 long-short (Q10 _−_ Q1) NIG momentum premia using ex-ante filters (Panel A) and ex-post filters (Panel B). The 120 filters produce 120 datasets. We then use these datasets to compute the _MOM_ (3 _,_ 3) and _MOM_ (6 _,_ 6) momentum strategies with equal- and value-weights, which yields 480 strategies for both the ex-ante and ex-post filtered data. We use the BAML/ICE data. All strategies are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. The standard errors used to construct the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

xiii 

**==> picture [328 x 495] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure A5: Accounting for data uncertainty – _LTREV_ in the WRDS data. 

The figure presents ordered _t_ -statistics (high to low) for the 480 long _−_ short (past long-term losers minus past longterm winners) long-term reversal premia from decile-sorted portfolios by using ex-ante and ex-post filters for All, IG, and NIG bonds. The 120 filters produce 120 datasets. We then use these datasets to compute the _LTREV_ (48 _,_ 12) and _LTREV_ (30 _,_ 6) long-term reversal strategies with equal- and value-weights, which yields 480 strategies for both the ex-ante and ex-post filtered data. The decile portfolios are rebalanced monthly with a one-month holding period. All strategies are constructed with the `PyBondLab` Python software package. The standard errors used to construct the _t_ -statistics are not adjusted for serial correlation. 

xiv 

